There's so much noise in the world. It's
very difficult to be definitive around
this.
>> I'm worried about what the negative
consequences are if this conflict
continues to go on.
>> What equity markets are saying is is
that this will not metastasize into
something which is larger.
>> We are viewing US equities as a bit of a
safe haven in this environment. The bar
for bad news is obviously exceptionally
high. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, stuck in talks about
talks.
>> Following President Trump's powerful
threat on Saturday evening, it was made
clear to the United States that Iran
wanted to talk. President Trump is
willing to listen. President Trump does
not bluff and he is prepared to unleash
hell. Any violence beyond this point
will be because the Iranian regime
refused to understand they have already
been defeated and refused to come to a
deal. The White House insisting the
diplomatic effort is continuing as Iran
is drafting plans to introduce a toll to
transit hormurs investors accord in a
headline-driven market whipssaw. Oil
advancing once again this morning.
>> This is a faith-based market. Do you
believe one headline? Do you believe
another headline? How do you prepare
yourself for the next headline that
could come down the pike? Every day this
goes on though, the upside gets smaller.
Every day this goes on, inflation
expectations are going to creep higher
and the growth expectations are going to
dip lower. And so ultimately at a
certain point, you wonder how much
people's impulse to buy the dip starts
to become limited.
>> Speaking of the whipsaw, this from Axios
just moments ago. Check out the story.
The Pentagon developing military options
for a final blow in Iran that could
include the use of ground forces and a
massive bombing campaign according to
two US officials and two sources with
knowledge.
>> This this just highlights how much we
don't know about the fog of war. There
was also reporting overnight about how
the bulk of Iran's uh bombing sites and
missile launchers have been damaged.
There are questions about what the US
and Israel attacks have actually
accomplished in Iran, what their
capabilities are. It just doesn't take
much to disrupt shipping. And this is
the difficulty. It takes one ship, one
dinghy, one drone, and that is the
problem that people are facing as well,
>> which is why everyone is stuck between a
rock and a hard place. Which way do you
turn? We've talked about facing down
substantial two-way two-way risk. Black
Rockck, not pricing in the risk. That's
the Black Rockck view. CIBC Chris Harvey
Trump the Trump put is struck. It's time
to put money to work.
>> Honestly, you've got Morgan Stanley
saying the same thing. You've got JP
Morgan saying also by the dip. You have
uh Veno Krishna over at Morgan Stanley
coming out and actually upgrading his
forecast. Right now by the dip has been
a successful trade pretty consistently
throughout the board especially when
there is geopolitics. This time when you
speak to energy strategists who we've
been talking about this for a couple of
weeks now they're sounding a very
different note that is much more similar
to what we're hearing from Black Rockck
than say some of the more bullish
streets uh streets out there.
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P
negative here by about 0.8%. Coming up
this hour, George Canas of MUFG with
markets very much on edge. Marine Corps
veteran General Robert Walsh's strikes
continue in the Middle East and Michelle
of Mastercard with the consumer very
much under pressure. We begin this out
with our top story. The US and Iran at
odds over peace talks as attacks press
on Jamaa Basi joins us now from Dubai
for more. Jamanna, welcome to the
program. Just what is the status of
talks? Where are we?
>> Yeah, well it doesn't appear like the
talks are actually happening, John. And
if you go by what the Iranians put out
yesterday, they don't seem to be in the
mood of compromising at all. They set
out their own five counter demands of
what they would look be looking to to
enter into discussions to end the war.
Uh and some of those terms are really
far away from the starting point of the
US discussions uh that they had even
prior to this war. Uh but they include
things like assurances from the US that
they'll never attack Iran again. Uh war
reparations that they're looking to
they're seeking to get from the United
States as well. Uh and then the other
one which is a new point that has
obviously emerged over the course of
this almost monthlong war is they are
saying that they have a right to
sovereignty over the strait of hormos
which is obviously an unacceptable
outcome for not just Gulf uh allies in
the region but more broadly for anyone
involved in the in the energy market. So
the terms are unrealistic and a
non-starter as far as the US is
concerned and it seems very unlikely
that these direct negotiations or even
indirect negotiations are actually going
to yield anything. At the same time the
clock is ticking. Uh remember at the
beginning of the week Trump pushed back
that 5-day ultimatum. We're getting
closer to that. So that coincides with
around Friday evening over here in the
Middle East. Uh and at the same time we
have been reporting about extra uh
military assets and the marine uh
expeditionary units that are arriving to
the region. There are two units on their
way. The first badge is expected to
arrive in coming days. uh which means
the Trump administration policy at this
point is almost to simultaneously look
to deescalate while at the same time
looking to potentially escalate over the
coming days given Iran are not showing
any inclination to return back to the
negotiating tables. I think there's a
real fear this weekend that we could
once again find ourselves in a situation
where military operations have once
again intensified. And just as a
reminder, it is day 27 of this war.
These strikes, the military operations
are ongoing. Um, if anything, IDF have
intensified some of their attacks over
central Tahan and other parts of Iran
overnight. Iran has continued to
retaliate against Gulf States. Some
sirens went off in Bahrain. Uh, some
more uh drones intercepted in Saudi
Arabia and even at the first deaths
reported in the UAE in over a week now
because of intercepted missiles. So this
is still we're still very much in the
midst of the war and a lot of
nervousness heading into this weekend
and the real possibility that this could
once more escalate and in return Iran
have also threatened to strike back
against civilian infrastructure at Gulf
States.
>> Jamala appreciate the update. Stay close
as always. Bloomberg's Jamala Beti out
of Dubai leading our coverage so far
this morning. There's a lot hanging on
talks over the next 48 hours
>> and a real question around what
deescalation looks like. I mean if you
deescalate, does that mean a ceasefire?
Does that mean a reopening of the
straight of Ramuz at a time where Iran
is saying that essentially they have
ultimate control over this key
passageway?
>> Let's get the view on Wall Street this
morning. Jos Garvis of MUFG writing the
impact from the war will likely turn out
to be even more damaging than the tariff
shock, especially considering that the
US jobs market and consumers are already
on shaky ground. George joins us now for
more. George, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's start with Lisa's World. the
auction soft two-year soft fiveyear
seven-year auction coming up a little
bit later. What do you think is behind
the weakness and demand for US
government debt right now?
>> Look, I think it's a a repricing that's
happened globally on the rate side. the
US Treasury market really lagged
everything else and this you know this s
sort of concern around like what is the
new steady state for interest rates and
you know heading into you know end of
the month end of the quarter type
environment these auctions usually do
well and the fact that they're you know
under pressure does kind of show that
there's been a some sort of kind of
buyer pullback
>> Muhammad Alarium wrote in the FT earlier
this week about golf flows and the
importance of the Gulf as a source of
capital not just a source of energy is
something happening with those golf
flows in respect to what we've seen so
far in the auctions.
>> Look, it's it's hard to tell with with
public data and just, you know, where we
stand things right now. Uh, in general,
foreign flows, you know, could be
impacted, you know, the longer this
persists. And that's that's really the
big issue here.
>> Is there also a question around
institutional credibility, what kind of
fiscal response there's going to be to
this? I've noticed that a lot of the
increase in benchmark rates in the US
have come from real yields, not at all
from inflation expectations. What's the
read through in terms of what the
appetite for debt is internationally?
>> Yeah, absolutely. So yeah, that's a
great point. The fact that we've seen
real rates, especially out beyond the
5-year point in the curve. So the 10
year and the 30-year has largely been a
real rate move, you know, potentially
capturing this sort of fiscal concern.
We've been here before. We've seen this
be like in times past when when there's
a risk of more supply coming down the
pike. You know, the bond market does
discount it, but we've also seen the
two-year sell off a decent amount. So
we've seen a level shift higher that's
also infiltrated out the curve. I think
it's early days, but yes, I am concerned
about the fiscal outlook in general. I'm
usually more of a fiscal hawk than a
more of a central bank buff. Uh but I do
think that it's more inflation and then
the fear that we're going to have to
like address this with more supply down
the road.
>> The reason why we're focusing on the
auctions is because it's the front lines
of real concern that we're seeing that
hasn't really been represented through
broader markets. There hasn't been this
sort of capitulation to the fear that we
can represent on any given day as we try
to extrapolate out the story. Why do you
think there hasn't been that sort of
fear trade, that sort of wash out that
so many people have been talking about?
>> I mean, the 2-year going from 3.4 to
close to 4%. I mean, that's that's
pretty much I think as qualifies as a
wash out. You know, I think that's a
pretty big move and and really
repricing, re realigning positioning. If
you're if your if your motus operendi
for like from this point forward until
we get some sort of conclusion on this
conflict is to trade small and to be
very tactical it's it's hard to really
come in with conviction.
>> Committing capital in this market is
almost impossible. I think that's been a
feature of this week not just around
this table but for a lot of people in
this market brammo after what we saw
early this week particularly on Monday
morning. This is a really difficult
moment for a lot of people not just the
economic backdrop that's shaky enough.
Things are fragile at the moment, but
going into the weekend, not knowing
which way this can go when the risk on
either side is so large, I'm not sure
what you're meant to do in this moment.
>> You're meant to sit on your hands and
try to take long-term positions, which
is the reason why you see people not
have conviction right now. You're
talking about two-sided risk. There also
is no way to get an edge. The whole
idea, and this is why I say it's playing
blackjack or it's playing slot machines.
It's not playing poker where you can
kind of gauge and calibrate the
potential probabilities. How do you have
any sense of that? Especially if you
think maybe the other guy has a better
edge than you do.
>> Have you ever seen it like this before,
George? You're an experienced guy.
You've seen many markets, many market
regimes. What's this one?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's look, it's it's
unique. It has a lot of different
elements to it. Um, I've always thought,
you know, down the line after years of
accumulating all the debt that we've had
after really kind of relying on
governments to be like the real backs
stop of everything that ultimately would
come down to something like this. It's
it becomes geopolitical where, you know,
like this is the new chess, you know,
game that we're playing. This is
different though. Central banks don't
seem to have a role in this moment.
We're used to that. And that's why I
think what Jeff Curry of Carlo said on
this show just last week is so
important. You can't print moracles
molecules. You can't print barrels. The
central bank back stop the anchor isn't
there for this market. This is
different. No,
>> no, no. Clear clearly. I mean, look, we
don't even know the full extent of the
shock waves are still coming down the
pike from this the closure of the
straight up formulas, right? I mean like
that I think that's an unusual optimism
that somehow it's all going to turn
around when you like you can't just turn
on a light switch
>> and Iran is making a major effort to
formalize formalize what essentially
they're trying to set up at the moment
which is charging people to use the
straight form and if you think this is
just a negotiation right now between
Iran and the United States you're
mistaken you've got nations across the
Gulf who are not going to be interested
in tolerating any of that as some kind
of formalized structure over in the
Middle East
>> which uh we've seen for example Saudi
Arabia and the UA UAE saying that there
are certain red lines that they aren't
going to be patient forever as Jumanna
has reported that they could join the
effort against Iran. What does a
ceasefire look like? What does a
deescalation look like? We keep coming
back to that. How far away are we from
things going back to the way that they
were?
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P just
off session lows. We're negative by
0.7%. George, it's good to see you as
always. George Can of MUFG. There is a
bond auction coming up later. We'll talk
more about that. We'll get Lisa's
thoughts on the story. twos, week fives,
week sevens a little bit later on this
afternoon. Let's give you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Good morning John. The Pentagon is
reportedly ramping up military options
for a potential quote final blow in the
war with Iran. According to Axios, the
plan could include the use of ground
forces and a massive bombing campaign.
President Donald Trump and Chinese
leader Xiinping planning to meet in
Beijing on May 14th and 15th. Trump was
due to visit China next week but
postponed his trip to focus on the war
with Iran. And travelers are facing the
longest wait times on record with some
stuck in airport security lines for
nearly 5 hours. The partial government
shutdown has left the TSA without
funding for about 40 days. Republicans
and Democrats remaining deadlocked over
disputes on immigration policy. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahari, thank you. I've got a friend
watch got a flight at 6:00 a.m. from
Laambia and I was watching the social
media account of that individual. They
got there at 3:00 in the morning
thinking that that would be enough time
to avoid the lines and the line is
incredibly long already.
>> The response, delete vacation. I think
I'll drive. I think increasingly people
are saying, you know what, I'll meet you
in a month. Let's just postpone this.
>> Who is going to want to fly? Use any of
the airports with the lines that long.
More on that story a little bit later.
Up next on the program, talks about
talks.
>> Nobody's ever seen anything like we're
doing in the Middle East with Iran. They
are negotiating, by the way, and they
want to make a deal so badly, but
they're afraid to say it.
>> Up next, General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Equity futures just off session lows.
We're negative by 0.6% on the S&P. On
the NASDAQ, we're down by 0.7. In the
bond market, yields are higher across
the curve. 10's up by four. And once
you've seen those two boards, you know
what this one looks like. Crude higher
by 3%. 93 on WTI. Brent crude this
morning pushing 106 Brammo just counting
down to that self-imposed deadline into
the weekend.
>> If there is some sort of re-escalation,
then all of a sudden there becomes a
material risk of further oil uh supplies
getting actually destroyed and that the
uh the plants themselves and that I
think is the real concern. And at what
point you're talking about years to
bring some of the supply back on on on
the line?
>> Brent crude right now. One of 561 under
Savvenis this morning. Talks about
talks.
>> Nobody's ever seen anything like we're
doing in the Middle East with Iran. We
are decimating.
They've got no navy. They've got no
anything. They are negotiating, by the
way, and they want to make a deal so
badly, but they're afraid to say it
because they figure they'll be killed by
their own people.
They're also afraid they'll be killed by
us.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House doubling down, claiming
peace talks with Iran are ongoing. Thran
rejecting the latest US proposal and
offering conditions of its own.
Blindberg's Ollie Crook joined us now
from the G7 foreign ministers meeting
over in France. Ollie, good morning.
What's on the table into the weekend?
>> I think for the G7 foreign ministers who
are gathering here, we just spoke to the
Canadian foreign minister. This is
really a a factf finding mission in
their conversations with Marco Rubio who
will arrive here um tomorrow morning to
try to establish a few facts. Of course,
there's the great question about the US
war aims, what the next steps are,
potential coordinated response in order
to dull the sort of influence of energy,
the energy crisis we're feeling in
ordinary times, John, the G7 would be
the kind of format where you discuss
potentially petroleum reserves
coordinated across all of these nations,
but we are of course uh not in ordinary
times. I think for the Europeans also to
quite have an understanding of what they
envision, what the Americans envision, a
European role could be here. We've heard
from President Trump that he'd like some
help in potentially opening up the
Straits of Hormuz. He's pulled back on
that. Marco Rubio tends to bring sort of
practicality to some of these broader
initiatives from the United States. So,
I think that will be the focus here. And
of course, trying to keep uh the US on
side on the question of Ukraine and
Russia. There have been a lot of
reporting recently, John, about the um
intelligence that's been shared by the
Russians to the Iranians, potentially
delivery of drones and hardware to the
Iranians. So, that will all be in focus
here. John,
>> Ollie, looking forward to your coverage
of the story on the ground in France.
Ollie Crook there. This could get
awkward for Rubio. This from the
president just moments ago on social
media. NATO nations have done absolutely
nothing to help deal with the lunatic
nation now military decimated of Iran.
The USA needs nothing from NATO but
never forget this very po important
point in time.
>> Okay, Marco, go negotiate with them. Go
have fun.
>> Have great have a great time and uh I
hope those discussions are fruitful.
This comes also with Germany talking
about ways to get leverage in their next
negotiation with the United States.
Clearly a Europe very concerned about
how to deal with uh President Trump's
United States of America.
>> So this is how the diplomatic chessboard
is set up right now. Secretary Rubio
essentially heading to France. You've
got JD Vance, the vice president,
reportedly preparing to make his way to
Pakistan for talks. And then you've got
military troops reportedly on their way
to the Middle East. So you could have
troop buildup, several different talks
in several different places and a lot of
options for the president who according
to Axios hasn't made his mind up.
>> And this is a reason why markets are
really getting mixed signals. It's
unclear who exactly is going to win out
at the end of the day. And there is a
schism right now in the MAGA movement
about how to proceed, how involved to
get this. It is not popular to put boots
on the ground. Some people saying there
isn't another option to get the straight
of her moose open and this is the setup
heading into the weekend.
>> Let's get to the options. Amarie joins
us now from Washington for more. Amarie,
good morning.
>> Good morning, Jonathan. And to make that
G7 meeting potentially even more awkward
for Secretary Rubio, the Washington Post
is reporting this morning that the
Pentagon is also weighing moving some
hardware that has been used in Ukraine
to the Middle East because, as you say,
they need options. And to discuss those
options, we're now joined by Lieutenant
General Robert Walsh of Academy
Securities. He's been a friend of the
show and someone who can give us some
insight on actually what this could mean
if the president were to send these
troops on the ground. Axios is talking
about a quote final blow and a lot of
this says to me when you look at some of
these options and some islands they
would want to take it really be about
controlling the straight of the Hormuse.
Given what we know about what kind of
personnel is being sent to the region,
how would they actually go about doing
this?
>> Yeah, thanks for having me today Marie.
I think you know it looks like what
you're trying to do is bring as many
options on the table to try to escalate
this to try to end this. It's in the
Trump administration's interest and the
world's interest to end this as quickly
as we can. The pace that we're going
that, you know, the US and Israelis have
had an air campaign that kind of
dominates the air domain at this point
in time. But now the next goal is to
open up the straits and to be able to
open up the straits. They're not going
to probably be able to do it by air
alone. They're going to need maritime
capabilities. And then when you
introduce ground capabilities c taking
key terrain is a key part of what uh the
US military can do with forces like
coming from the 82nd airborne or these
marine expedition units. In fact, one of
the main missions of these marine
expedition units are to seize advanced
naval bases and seize and control choke
points and keep seizing key terrain is a
key military objective even in today's
style of warfare. Now, obviously,
they're going to have to be protected to
be able to go in there and have all the
capabilities to do that, but seizing
terrain or the threat of seizing that
terrain can drive the behavior of the
enemy. And I think that's what they're
hoping to do by introducing them, drive
them closer into the negotiations to try
to try to bend to the US will in those
negotiations or escalate this to try to
bring this to an end.
>> Well, if they're going to hold some of
these key assets to open the street, how
long could these kind of individuals
hold it? because the regime will likely
keep fighting on. Does this mean that
we're going to have to relieve some of
these people and this could last months
or maybe years?
>> I think the hope would be to bring them
in, seize that key terrain so the
Iranians can't use these a lot of this
locations they're using for middle
missiles, drones, but a lot of these
fast attack boats that they've used in
the past and it's hard for intelligence
to know whether we've gotten them all.
So sometimes you have to go in there and
really look around and be able to seize
things to be able to make sure that they
don't have that capability or if they
bring it out, you're right there to
whack them. So I think part of that is
bringing them in and if you brought them
into one of those islands, you may put
them in there and protect them with air
cover, maritime cover, but you may also
insert them for a while. It could be go
in there to seize um oil, gas, uh
refueling capabilities, shut down the
peers, those locations, and you could
extract out also and then put in some
type of blockade that would stop, you
know, the Iranian shipments going out,
but you now have stopped them from being
able to operate from those locations.
>> You mentioned this idea of escalate to
deescalate. Do you think this would
harden the regime or it actually would
push them to the negotiating table?
>> It's very difficult to see with this
regime. you know, you go back to World
War II and what it took with the
Japanese and you go back with the
Germans and how much it took to finally
to bring that war to a conclusion. You
know, in this case, this is even a more
fanatical regime. So the hope would be
that you can escalate this so much that
they feel so much pain that they look
for some way for an out where they can
get to some type of ceasefire where they
could claim domestically some type of
victory because I think at this point in
time the regime change is not going to
happen by military action. Not unless we
marched on Tyrron which there is no
intention to do that. So I think the cap
the capability now would be to try to
take the military objectives that we set
out and then now look to see what the
people will do over time. And it may not
be in the next weeks, it might be
months, it might be a couple years.
>> Can the US do this alone?
>> I think what the president's been trying
to do, I think on the the taking the
straits, I think that's something that
we could absolutely do with the forces
that we've got lined up. But I also
think keeping the straits open by
escorting ships through there, having uh
air defense capabilities. So we start uh
escorting commercial shipping through
there. The best thing we could do is to
build a coalition and I think that's
what the administration's trying to do.
But a lot of the countries, they all
have different um requirements. We saw
that in Iraq and Afghanistan over rules
of engagement. Everybody had their own
kind of sets what they were comfortable
with. This would be some c countries
like maybe the British would like to
come in and operate with us and how we
operate. Others would wait till the
conditions would be more set where they
would have less risk. But they would be
part of this coalition to open up the
straits. But this actions we're doing
now to escalate with the threat of using
ground forces is all part of opening up
the straits of Hormuz which is a key
part along with getting the nukes and
stopping the nuke growth.
>> Absolutely. That's where all the oil
right now. This key chokeold. Thank you
so much Lieutenant General for your time
this morning. Jonathan, of course, that
was Lieutenant General Robert Walsh.
What's so interesting is when you talk
about the Street of Hermoose, what the
Iranian Parliament right now is
discussing is basically making this
passage for a fee. And we already know
that one vessel that went through got
had to pay $2 million in order to get
their cargo safely through the straight.
>> Amarie, appreciate the update down in
Washington DC, which is why we've said
already this morning that this is not
just about the US and Iran anymore. or
if Iran is attempting to formalize what
Amarie just described, you're going to
have some nations across the Gulf with a
few things to say about that.
>> Can you allow Iran to become essentially
a superpower right now with the control
of one of the main waterways in this
world? That is the question.
>> Brent crude up by 3% 10550 on Brent this
morning. Up next, why of Black Rockck
downgrading equities as the war takes a
toll.
Sometimes the price action is so
volatile your head spinning you forget
where you are on the week so far through
Wednesday coming into Thursday we're
actually higher by 1.3%.
Close out the week at these levels. One
of the best weeks we've seen since early
January. So there you go. Things can
change a lot in the next 24 hours,
that's for sure. Equity futures on the
S&P pulling back by 0.6%. Likewise on
the NASDAQ, we're down by.7, down.9 on
the Russell with higher bond yields this
morning. Twos, 10, 30s, yields up across
the curve. We're looking out for a
7-year auction a little bit later after
soft twos and soft fives over the
previous two days. Those two auctions
rhymed in the sense that the bid to
cover auction was the lowest going back
to 2024 and dealers took down the most
going back to 2022. How come there is
this lack of appetite for US debt? Is it
because of concerns about inflation? Is
it concerns about the fiscal response to
any kind of crisis? Or is it a sense
that people just don't know where to put
their money right now? So they're
playing whack-a-ole with the headlines.
It's really curious. Watch the $44
billion of sevenyear notes sold today.
So there's a lot of reasons and you've
outlined a few. The one I'm paying
attention to, this is the one I want to
see come together, try to understand,
there's obviously domestic internal
budget pressure at certain countries
around the world right now in Asia, in
the Middle East. And I just wonder how
that's going to shape foreign flows in
the next several months. that
predictable demand that might come from
those sources, how it might be shaken up
by the declining crude revenue in the
Middle East because they can't get the
barrels out and the increase in crude
imports for Asia struggling to get the
barrels in.
>> A great example of that is gold. The
idea that gold prices have gone down as
central banks in different parts of the
world have sold gold in order to raise
resources. You talk about the Middle
East. How much are Saudi Arabia and UAE
uh investors really going to continue to
go into US assets? This has been a lynch
pin of a lot of the investment for a lot
of the tech buildout, let alone US
treasuries. How much does that start to
Wayne as this conflict is uh ongoing?
Some people say, well, they could gain
more on the other side if there is a
good outcome. You know, this is going to
be a question and a real question,
especially given an appetite to
diversify for some of these nations away
from the risk that they hold currently.
I thought the piece from Muhammad Alan
in the Financial Times earlier this week
was really quite precient on golf flows.
The Gulf is a source of capital, not
just a source of energy and what it
might mean for financial markets in the
coming weeks and months. As we can get
down to the opening bell with crude
advancing, appending some of those moves
in the bond and stock market. Let's get
you some single names and morning
movers. Yhara has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. It's a familiar pattern playing
out when investors start to get uneasy
about the situation in Iran, especially
with conflicting signals from both
sides. You start to see gold and silver
sell off. Gold retreating today after a
two-day bounce and that is pulling down
the mining stock. So, you have names
like Heckla Mining down 3.9% in the
pre-market. Uh moving on to memory
chops. Uh memory chip stocks, they are
extending their selloff. Sandis down
3.4%. 24% micron also in the red after
Google introduced a new compression
technique that could cut memory needs
for AI models by as much as six times.
So of course that is raising concerns
about future demand while others on the
street are saying greater efficiency
will only increase uh usage over time
referring to Jevans model. But today,
investors choosing to price in the risk.
Plus, these names have run up so much,
so makes sense on a riskoff day like
today. And we end on a small stock
making a big move. Ollex soaring 50% in
the pre-market on some deal news. Uh he
uh the company Henkle, a German company,
agreeing to buy the hair care brand for
$1.4 billion. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yahara a little bit later on
our radar this morning. Iran rejecting
the US ceasefire plan and continuing
attacks on Israel and Arab states in the
Gulf. Thran offering its own conditions
for a truce, including reparations for
war damages and authority over the
straight of Hormuz. Elsewhere, a Turkish
operated tanker carrying about 1 million
barrels of Russian crude hit by drones
in the Black Sea near Istanbul. Turkey's
transport minister saying there were no
casualties or spilled oil. And finally,
the AR strategic income fund posting its
steepest monthly loss on record last
month. the fund capping withdrawals of
5% early this week following a surge in
redemption requests.
>> This feeds on the whole private credit
concern story just to sort of have a to
be sure here. The decline that we're
talking about in February was 0.68%.
This isn't exactly an 8% draw down or
even a 15% draw down or even a 3% draw
down. So, at a certain point, you've got
to frame it in the context that these
funds just haven't really seen losses in
their recent iteration. There has been a
golden era for private credit for so
long that no one has experienced the
downtrend of the cycle. That's the
reason why people are looking and saying
what exactly are we looking at? Are we
looking at the end of the cycle and some
sort of collapse? Are we looking at some
shakeout particularly tied to software
names which accounted for about a third
of the portfolios of a lot of these
private debt funds.
>> Also hard to really frame the amount of
redemptions we're actually seeing right
now and how many of them are real or
not. And what I mean by that, we touched
on it earlier on this week. If I know
that whatever I request I'm only going
to get half, I'm likely to ask for
double. And I wonder just how much of
that we have seen over the past few
months.
>> It's the reverse side of allocations to
debt sales. People put in twice, three
times as much. And that's the reason why
a lot of the investment bankers say it
was five times over subscribed because
they know they're not going to get the
allocation that they're looking for. A
lot of questions around this story. When
you talk to people in the market, it
doesn't seem like there is crisis type
of alarm bells ringing here. And you
could see that by the fact a lot of
people went into software names in the
past couple of weeks as other people
were distracted by what was going on
with the Iranian war. That said, there
is a fragility here and should there be
some sort of economic downturn, people
point to this area as evidence of a weak
spot that could potentially percolate
out into the broader economy.
>> Without a doubt and it's headline after
headline every single morning on this
program coming out of private to credit.
Let's turn to global markets whips by
conflicting signals from the US and
Iran. Way Lee of Black Rockck writing,
"We're dialing down tactical risk for
now. We turn neutral across equity
markets because overall risk asset
pricing is not consistent with the shock
implied by energy markets." We joined us
now for more way. Welcome to the
program. This is something that a lot of
people are talking about a shock in
energy and how to price it in equities.
What suggests to you that we're
mispriced?
>> Yeah. So um this is how I'm thinking
about it right now. The risk feels a bit
asymmetric at this moment. So if we have
a peace deal um then we could have a
relief rally in markets but US equities
are just over 4% from the beginning of
the conflict just how much room there is
for that relief rally to go. On the
other hand, if we don't have tangible
evidence of actions that could shorten
the duration of the disruption and right
now we don't, then current risk pricing
is not consistent with the doable
disruption the energy markets pricing
right now. So our energy investors are
telling me that we have already lost
about 10% of global oil supply, 20% of
global LG supply. Now driving this
inconsistency in risk assets especially
equity asset could be this buy the deep
uh flow dynamics right. Before I just
came on, I was using the Bloomberg askb
function to pull up the flows going into
US equity ETFs is a really easy function
and actually the flows has been going up
since the beginning of the conflict even
though sentiment is clearly plummeting
and I think that has been uh one big
reason behind the inconsistency in
market pricing and because of this risk
asymmetry that I just talked about we
have flattened equity uh directional
exposure to neutral while leaning into
thematics, thematical themes. Uh so for
example uh you know no matter what
happens from this point on uh as a
result of the events in the Middle East,
every company, every government globally
is going to be very focused on energy
security, energy independence and also
supply chain and infrastructure uh uh
security. So these are the themes that
we're leaning into whilst being
directionally neutral on equities right
now.
>> Way are you suggesting then there will
be a premium an additional premium in
the price of commodities due to
stockpiling beyond whenever this
situation concludes?
>> Well, we already see some stockpiling uh
activities by countries and countries
are putting in restrictions on energy
use already as a result uh of the supply
chain disruption. So uh Jonathan, you
may remember uh that we wrote out the uh
word shaped by supply framing um almost
four years ago characterized by mega
forces. I think we're in a supercharged
version of that word shaped by supply.
You look at what has worked during this
period of volatility. Um it's not it
hasn't been gold incredibly. It was not
uh government bonds. real assets have
actually been working uh better as a
diversifier in this environment. I think
in this world supercharged uh world
shaped by supply constraints this is
what we're dealing with right now. So
macro environment is really quite
different. No matter what happens from
this point on, uh the macro environment
for 2026 is uh very different because of
the stackflationary
momentum in the system because of the
existing disruption that has already
taken place.
>> Way a lot of investors who've come on
the show agree with you and they say
that they are taking down risk, but
they're taking down risk more in Europe.
They're taking down risk in Asia, some
of the more exposed areas to imports of
energy assets. You talk about
downgrading US stocks in particularly.
Why don't you think that the US is
almost a haven from some of the turmoil
because of the oil production in the
nation?
>> I would say that we already preferred US
equities over Europe and Asia equities
through most part of the conflict so
far. So this adjustment uh right now
that we have implemented this week is
really just to flatten the directional
movement across equity exposures. So we
have we had the overweight in US
equities. So we flattened it but we we
didn't have the overweight in European
equities. We didn't have the overweight
in Asian equities which is why they they
were already flat. So right now we're
just kind of we want to square the
directional kind of exposures by being
neutral across equities at the moment
because of the uh blowby-blow volatility
uh coming from headlines. I think this
week is the perfect example of how it is
impossible to predict the next
announcement and I think squaring the
directional exposures makes sense. is
just good uh risk uh management but we
are very nimble and very dynamic to look
to Dow up or maybe even further down
risk like what we did back in April.
We're looking very closely uh for
evidence of durable kind of policy uh
actions and right now markets seem to
react a lot to announcements coming from
the US side which is why we saw the last
few days markets trying to rally on
announcements from uh the US but maybe
actually the the announcement coming
from the Iranian side could be driving
the next kind of progress next step in
this uh in this journey. Well, you know,
you noticed uh you noted that a lot of
the uh government bond space has not
acted as a counterbalance to some of the
risks that we've seen. It hasn't acted
as a haven. How concerned are you about
some of the auctions that we've been
seeing, the US government bond auctions
that have been pretty messy over the
past couple of days?
>> Uh you talked about it earlier on uh and
also cited reasons such as inflationary
concern as well as fiscal concern. I
think these are really big uh uh reasons
for why maybe the appetite for US
treasuries is less compared to before
and I think also the you talked about
kind of petro dollar potentially
decreasing and also the greater demand
for real assets where is that going to
come from and I think they all play a
role but I would say at the same time
that markets have gone through
significant repricing especially uh at
the front end of uh government bonds in
the US. Yes. But in Europe, in uh in
other parts of DM uh uh uh markets too
to the extent that actually as a
temporary cash buffer, they don't look
too bad. So we actually prefer the front
end and the belly uh of the US Treasury
market over the long end of the US uh
Treasury market. And the same applies to
European government bonds. We actually
even this week uh brought up the front
end of European government bonds from
neutral to modest overweight to reflect
the very significant repricing that we
have seen for ECB hikes.
>> Way thank you. We've got to leave it
there. Way there of Black Rockck on rate
pricing. This from the president of the
United States just moments ago and on
social media are really verbatim for
you. So you can follow at home. The
Iranian negotiators are very different
and strange. They are begging us to make
a deal, which they should be doing since
they have been militarily obliterated
with zero chance of a comeback. And yet
they publicly state they are only
looking at our proposal. Wrong. They
better get serious soon before it's too
late. Because once that happens, there
is no turning back and it won't be
pretty. The president just moments ago.
>> Who's he talking to? Is he talking to
the Iranians? Is he talking to US
markets? This is the reason why people
are looking at these kinds of truth
social postings and inferring what could
the action be on the back end of this.
There have been an increasing number of
uh truth social posts from President
Trump this morning, including one
talking about NATO we won't forget. And
then uh threatening Iran to get serious
about talks. Hard to get a sense of what
actually is going on.
>> Futures just pulling back following
those headlines. We're down by 3/4 of 1%
on the S&P 500 with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Yahara has more. Hey Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump
declaring victory in Iran. The president
saying the US is negotiating in Tyrron
wants to make a deal, but quote they're
afraid to say it because they figure
they'll be killed by their own people.
They're also afraid they'll be killed by
us. Meta and Google saying they will
appeal a a California court decision
holding them liable for a young woman's
mental health struggles. A jury ordering
the tech giants to pay $6 million to the
woman after a landmark case centered on
social media addiction. And Black
Rockck's Rick Reer shrugging off
speculation of rate hikes this year.
Reader telling Bloomberg, quote, "Small
businesses, young people, and the
lowincome are really getting hurt by
current rates." Readers call for a cut
is in line with the White House's demand
for cuts from the Fed. That's Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program pain at the pump.
>> We're going to see prices at the pump go
back down. This president is keeping
them as low as he can during this
short-term um combat operation and
they're going to go right back down when
this is over.
>> They're getting higher. Michelle Mer of
Mastercard Economics Institute joins us
next from New York City. This is
Bloomberg Surveillance.
The stakes are high as we get closer and
closer to this self-imposed deadline for
talks between Iran and the United
States. The president with a statement
just moments ago. They better get
serious soon before it's too late
because once that happens, there is no
turning back and it won't be pretty. the
president of the United States just
moments ago with that statement.
Equities pulling back on the S&P 500.
Futures negative by 3/4ers of 1% on the
NASDAQ down by 0.8 down 1% on the
Russell. Story so far this morning,
yields higher, twos, 10, 30s. A lot to
think about. Some data later this
morning. Initial jobless claims at 8:30
Eastern time. Also, I think more
importantly at the moment, the supply,
the weak auctions we've seen across
2year and 5year notes this week. The
7-year is up next. Yeah, $44 billion
being sold at 1 p.m. today. The 2-year
and the 5-year note, both seeing dealers
take down the greatest proportion of
those debt sales going back to 2022.
Uncertainty here about exactly what the
level of rates ought to be and seeing
these bonds sell off after the initial
auction.
>> Quick check of crude for you. 106 on
Brent, WTI at 93. Basically, everything
is set off the price of this right now.
You wake up every single morning. You
look at Brent, you look at WTI and
you've got a pretty decent idea of what
everything else is doing in financial
markets worldwide
>> and you blink and it changes and then
everything adjusts at the same time.
Who's going to want to hold risk heading
into this weekend? We keep asking that
and I'm going to keep looking for that
one person who's going to raise their
hand and take it on. So, please call in.
>> Chris Harvey, CIBC. Time to put some
money to work.
>> Veno Krishna.
>> Yeah, Veno, too.
>> Yeah,
>> I I love that VU raised this price tag.
>> I think it's fabulous. We'll talk to
>> just more of that. I'm not endorsing it.
I'm just saying like that's bold. I
respect it.
>> There's a lot of bold moves right now.
Totally.
>> I think I'll be hiding.
>> Oil prices are up. Gasoline prices are
higher under surveillance this morning.
Pain at the pump.
>> As for um the temporary short-term
fluctuation in gas prices, the president
has said uh once these combat operations
are over, this administration is going
to continue to unleash uh American
energy dominance. We're going to see
prices at the pump go back down just as
we have over the past year uh because of
this president. this president is
keeping them as low as he can during
this short-term um combat operation and
they're going to go right back down when
this is over.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. US
gasoline prices rising over 30% since
the start of the war in Iran last month.
Michelle Ma of the Mastercard Economics
Institute writing gas prices are up but
with historical norms within those
historical norms and households have
shown resilience through recent
inflation shocks. Michelle joins us now
for more. Michelle, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You've got really good visibility on
spending in this country.
>> Yes.
>> What's the reaction? so far to much
higher gasoline prices.
>> Well, I think consumers are are managing
remarkably well as I as I noted. Um
certainly gas prices are higher and
that's a necessity which means that more
of that purchasing power has to be
allocated towards paying at the pump. Um
but when you think about the bigger
picture in terms of how consumers are
spending, it's holding up quite well.
And I think a lot of that is because
we're still in the early stages. We're
still in the early stages of the shock.
What will really matter is the duration
of the shock. How long does it go on
for? Because you see over the years,
right, when consumers are faced with a
temporary price adjustment, they can
manage through that. When it becomes a
permanent price level shock, then it
becomes a very different story.
>> The starting point matters as well.
Let's take the airlines. Lisa caught up
with United earlier on this week. What
we've heard from Delta and what we heard
from United is demand ahead of the shock
was skyhigh.
>> Yes, that's extremely important and that
was for the overall economy. When you
think about the momentum at the end of
last year from the holiday shopping
season and how that continued into early
this year, consumers were out there
spending. They were out there uh
spending on experiences. We see that
very clearly in our airline um spending
data as well. So there was a lot of
growth heading in which means that yes,
we're at a world now where there's
heightened uncertainty. There are a lot
of questions. There's a lot of concerns
naturally when it comes to consumers. Um
but it's still in the early stages.
Steve Shidau of Mizuo said what this
does for him, this oil price shock is
that it reduces the option for an upside
tail risk or a tailwind to the US
economy that that is taken off the
table, but that the momentum will
prevent the US from falling into
recession. Do you think that there is
sufficient momentum to deal with oil
prices should they reach $125, $150 a
barrel?
So I think we need to take a step back
and think about this overall cycle and
consider how every year probably right
around now in the spring the pessimism
comes in in a big way and there's always
a reason why the whether it was tariffs
or the smaller bank crisis or you know
variety of other shocks that were
hitting the economy that were making
people feel really uncomfortable making
investors and economists feel very
uncomfortable and the US economy in
particular has managed through
remarkably well time and again so I
think that there there is this kind
dynamic nature of the economy that has
allowed it to manage through a lot of
headwinds very very well. Um so yes, you
have to think about where we're coming
from, what we've learned throughout the
cycle, the momentum that started in the
beginning of the year. Um and then
consider where we're going from here. If
oil prices remain very high for an
extended period of time and financial
conditions tight in, it could create
some real challenges for the economy. It
doesn't necessarily mean a recessionary
environment, but it's something we have
to monitor. If it's a short blip, then
you have to consider again the
underlying trend and how much momentum
there's been in this economy and the
conversation changes.
>> A lot of analysts have pointed to the
labor market weakening. Do you see any
evidence of that type of dynamic showing
up in some of the demand on the consumer
side?
>> So certainly the pace of job creation
has weakened. The unemployment rate has
inched higher. We'll see what jobless
claims show. so far they remained very
very low. Um so there's not that much
evidence of um job reductions. There's
certainly evidence of a reduction in
hiring rates and overall churn in the
workforce. Um so I would argue yes the
labor market now versus a year ago or
two years ago is in a more challenging
place but I don't think it is a
challenged labor market because you're
not seeing that displacement.
>> What are the prospects for second order
effects from this inflation shock coming
from energy? what are the chances that I
can go to my employer and say my energy
bill's up, my gasoline prices are
higher, I want a higher raise.
>> So you want to know about a wage price
spiral
>> without a doubt.
>> Um, so I think in this environment it's
probably a bit harder to see that play
out because you have a labor market
where there's a, you know, you don't
have the same degree of churn. You don't
have that same amount of bargaining
power exhibited by employees. So that
does mean that the extent to which
energy prices increase, it's going to be
a matter of consumers trying to figure
out how they navigate that, how they
shift things around, how they reallocate
what they're um spending on in order to
manage through that. It's it's it's
different than in 20 the the last big
energy price increase where the labor
market was very hot. So we had energy
prices increasing, we had asset prices
increasing, and we had wages increasing,
the overall economy inflated. That
explanation is the biggest argument
right now for the Fed to look through
the shock. That's why traditionally you
look through it if the labor market's
not that tight.
>> I was expecting you to say don't let
that discourage you from that discourage
for a raise. At the same time, you are
correct.
>> Don't think you should give up on asking
for a raise.
>> That's where I thought you were going to
go with this.
>> Keep your leverage. All right, Sh. Good
to see you. Great to see you. Always is.
Thanks for dropping by. Thank you.
Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Azant of Deutsche Bank, John Libra
of Eurasia Group, the OECD Secretary
General Matias Corman, and the former
Dallas Fed President Robert Kaplan. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance up
next.
It's going to take logistically and from
the production perspective months to go
back to normal. the longer we go. And
this I think is the key issue.
>> There's nothing the Federal Reserve can
do. They can hike or cut all they want.
It's not going to open the straight of
Hormuz.
>> The uncertainty in the Middle East may
put them on hold for a while. The US
economy can take a few more punches than
the rest of the world.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Blindberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores the price action looks like
this. It's pulling back by 7/10en of 1%
on the S&P 500 down by8 on the Nasdaq.
In the bond market yields up across the
curve twos, 10 tens and 30s. Twos this
morning higher by four basis points
approaching 4% again up by almost five
on 10 at 438 and crude doing this. WTI
and Brent pushing higher once again.
Brent at 106, WTI at 93. The president
setting the stage for talks going into
the weekend in his self-imposed deadline
for negotiations. The diplomatic effort
continues. This from the president. They
better get serious soon before it's too
late because once that happens, there is
no turning back and it won't be pretty.
>> The reason why people are concerned
about oil prices from here is because
oil production facilities would be in
the line of fire given any escalation.
That's what Iran has said. And the US
side has also talked about targeting
Iranian facilities. Given that backdrop,
people are watching some of these
discussions, some of these true social
posts, the comments to understand
whether there is an effort and a desire
to deescalate or escalate. If you get
any clarity, good luck. Call in and let
us know because right now it has been
highly a soup of uncertainty and
messaging that runs in all directions.
>> I have so much sympathy for anyone
waking up and trying to commit capital,
allocate capital to this market this
morning. So much sympathy. This can cut
two ways in a very dramatic fashion.
You've got markets at the moment itching
to allocate, itching to step in. The
fear of missing out greater than the
fear of losses at the moment. And you
can see why. You've got some signal from
the administration. They'd like to make
a deal. I I get it. But then you look at
the calendar and you think about where
we might be in 2 days time when this
self-imposed deadline expires and the
troop buildup that's been ordered
reportedly arrives in the Middle East.
Then this can go dramatically in the
other direction. This is uh and and I
have a lot of sympathy for them too. A
number of analysts have come on the show
and said we're not going to trade this.
This particular uh set of events isn't
tradable. What is tradable is the risk
premium that Jeff Curry was talking
about in commodities is the concept of
stockpiling key assets of national
security and building up some sort of
defense system. And that's what way Lee
was talking about of Black Rockck.
They're going to go with those mega
themes rather than try to time out
different postings on different social
media. Should we talk about auctions
>> please?
>> These are the real world issues
happening in financial markets right
now. You've seen the shock in energy.
We've been tracking it through fixed
income as people try and price the
future of interest rates, inflation, how
much fiscal space of all of these
different nations got for very different
reasons. The 2-year was soft. The 5year
was soft. There's a 7-year auction
coming up a little bit later. The
traditional stable sources of demand are
under question right now because
domestically internally pressure is
building abroad in places like Asia in
the Middle East. And I give some credit
to Muhammad Alerin earlier this week and
we talked about his piece in the
Financial Times pressing I think to
think about the Gulf not just as a
source of energy but also as a source of
capital and trying to track that story
in the coming days. They've been the
seed investors for a lot of the private
credit investments, for a lot of the
private equity investments, for a lot of
the leverage finance deals that have
gotten done. And now there's a real
question about whether they have the
capacity to keep allocating, let alone
the willingness. This hasn't come from
increasing inflation expectations. And I
think that is underpinning what you're
saying. When you look at 5year, 5year
break even rates, which is the expected
inflation uh over the next 5 to 10
years, it is lowest in more than a in
almost a year. That is how far it has
fallen. You could say that this is a
skewed metric. Nonetheless, maybe it's
better than the University of Michigan
sentiment survey in terms of uh
forward-looking inflation expectations
and it is not screaming inflationary
spiral. So that gives you a sense of why
the increase in yields is that much more
interesting.
>> You mentioned tomorrow, right?
>> It is.
>> Okay. Looking closely. We will of course
on the way home
>> right after the show. Exactly. Okay.
Coming up this hour of Deutsche Bank as
war uncertainty rattles markets
worldwide. The OECD Secretary General
Matias Corman on a stagflationary shock
and the former Dallas Fed President
Robert Kaplan on pricing rate hikes. We
begin this hour with stocks lower as
crude prices push higher. Ozant of
Deutsche Bank writing energy is the
dominant transmission channel into
inflation expectations and cross asset
correlations raising the question of
whether duration still hedges risk
assets in supply shock regimes. Ozan
joins us now for more. Asen, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Wonderful to be here.
>> You're a very connected man. You talked
to a lot of people in your conversations
in different regions over the past 3
weeks. Just give us an idea of what they
sound like at the moment and how they've
changed.
>> Complacency, John. Uh that's the that's
the key word that I'm coming up with
after my uh New York City trip.
Obviously, the Monday headline helped.
Uh that whole 5 days gave us a bit of a
of a breather. only two weeks ago I
sense that everybody's waiting for or
the moment that we keep getting mission
accomplished mission accomplished from
the president equities higher oil lower
I would say two weeks ago in London
around there was more bearishness people
wanted to really fade that now uh into
the weekend into these ceasefire hopes I
do sense especially in this city
complacency the the feeling that
American assets can bear this out the
feeling that maybe 23 23 24 like US um
outperformance may be back. So we are
very vulnerable very fragile to mornings
like this when the president raises the
game again if you know for much more
important than market reasons if there's
a human tragedy over the weekend if a
ship gets one or two ship gets hit.
>> Yeah,
>> we're vulnerable to that.
>> Where do you see greater complacency?
Because we have repriced asset classes a
lot particularly in energy and in bonds.
Where's the greater complacency at the
moment?
>> Great question. I mean the the hurt was
in especially front end of rates
especially in oil where complacency is
especially in US equities and credit
still feeling very very resilient
credit uh wonderful to be here with Lisa
with all the all the worries on private
credit I think there is a there is a
merit to that things can get a lot wider
than where they are if headlines turn
more nasty
>> what are you telling clients when you
say you really ought to be careful about
the complacency and frankly the ripple
effects that are coming from the fixed
income market uh and the seven-year
auction right so uh look first of all
yes it looks untradable what especially
if one has survived this whole uh saga
there is a lot to be done so I do have
sympathy with those who are betting on
more of a ceasefire uh to to tackle uh
some good headlines to come and because
of that us having a small uh popup but I
think the bigger risk is the wounds that
we have created the big oil supply
problem because of that unfortunately a
cliche but a very true cliche it may be
a word um triggered by US and Israel but
Europe Asia UK will get hurt more so for
the moment I'm here vice chair of bank I
would have loved to talk about my blue
hat and European out performance but
looking forward uh I do see
underperformance from rest of the world,
Europe and Asia. Trade that has done
wonderfully for 15 16 months. Now time
to scale back.
>> You mentioned the front end of the yield
curve and how much people have priced
out rate cuts and now are pricing in
rate hikes. What do you think is behind
that? Because inflation expectations
have not picked up in a lot of metrics
over the longer term. And as John was
just mentioning, the idea of a wage
price uh spiral looks much less like a
given this time around than say back in
2022.
Why this push back so significantly
against rates?
>> Because people do do believe that really
this higher story has has momentum. They
do worry more about inflation. They do
remember 22. They do remember the supply
shock. Even though there are many
differences between 22 to now, supply
shock versus uh demand shock last time
around. And they don't want to let that
go. They don't want to say make the same
mistake of 22. So they're holding on to
their uh bearish front end expectations.
even here in again Europe and UK it may
be even more justified because we're
very vulnerable to those uh oil shocks
and even listening to Madame Lagard
yesterday yet she did sound balanced she
did walk a careful line uh but if uh if
oil continues to even stay high would
you really rule out a summer hike a
spring hike? No.
>> What do you think the pain trade is
right now in fixed income?
pain trade. Uh the absolute pain trade
is for us to go back to uh pre-Iran.
Remember those Fab 27, Fab 26, all we
talked about was AI Streiny, Schumer
article, something bad is about to
happen, right?
>> Bull flatteners, uh some legendary names
that we both talked to a lot were
claiming that bond is the new gold that
coming back, you know,
>> so the pain trade is lower yields from
here.
>> The everything coming lower. So bull
flatten that almost sounds like a
fantasy even but be careful in 3 weeks
these things can turn uh but even
steepness all of a sudden front end
coming down maybe hearing what this says
a bit more uh feeling that all wars
coming in may change the picture a bit
we're big believers in bare flatteners
again so a bull stiffener front end
coming lower could be a could be a pain
rate
>> it's good to see you thanks for being
Yeah, always a pleasure.
>> Thanks for making time for us. Ozen
there of Deutsche Bank heard this a few
times that at some point it gets so bad
it's good for bonds.
>> We're not there yet.
>> But you you have to imagine typically
bonds do well when growth falls off a
cliff and it incurs some sort of
recession in a region which is the
reason why way Lee was talking about
buying bonds in Europe because things
don't look great there and if they hike
rates well that's going to torpedo
growth and that's going to maybe be good
for bonds perversely on the back end.
This is again you keep going back to
what exactly is the bond market
representing? Is it inflation
expectations? Are break even rates
accurate? If they are, then they're
inflecting lower. They're highlighting
an actually disinflationary type of
impulse. Or is it fiscal uh that people
are worried about?
>> You forgive me for making it really
confusing.
>> I think that there's no way that this
can be a less confusing moment.
>> I happen to think the pain trades in the
opposite direction. I'll tell you why.
It's not that I think it's the most
likely outcome. I just think that's
where there there is the most doubt
right now. just surveying the people
that come on this program. Most people
come on this program and say, "Look, I
understand why rates have repriced
higher, but this is why they're not
going to hike and this is why yields
need to come down." And everyone I speak
to in fixed income at the moment looks
at the backup in yields and turns around
and says, "We've created a lot of value
in the yield curve. I think this is the
time to buy." Which is why I would say
from my perspective, and you know, I'd
be interested in other people's
perspectives on this too. When I think
about paying trades, I'm always thinking
where is the most doubt? And the most
doubt seems to be in fixed income right
now that yields can go much higher from
here and maybe they can.
>> The pain trade when it comes to tradable
moments in the near-term positioning
might be a bull flattener. The pain
trade for the entire market,
particularly risk assets, is yields
going higher and blowing out a lot of
people's expectations of what asset
pricing looks like. That is the pain
trade that is a much bigger one that
could incur some sort of recession.
>> Not necessarily the most likely trade,
but one to think about. We can argue
about this in a commercial break. I'm
happy to. Let's get you an update on
news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Yahira has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump posting
on truth social this morning that
Iranian negotiators are quote begging to
make a deal. The president urging Iran
to get serious before it's too late.
Writing once that happens there is no
turning back and it won't be pretty. The
Trump administration is trying to
arrange a meeting for Vice President JD
Vance in Pakistan this weekend for Iran
peace talks. CNN reporting other top
administration officials could also join
the meeting. Turkey is also being
floated as a potential location.
And Fed Governor Steven Myron raising
his rate projection for the end of the
year. Myron saying, "I boosted my policy
rates by half a percent, not due to oil
in Iran, but due to inflation data."
Myron voted against the Fed's decision
to leave rates unchanged last week,
preferring a quarter point cut. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yhara later this hour.
Up next on a program threatening to
unleash hell.
>> President Trump does not bluff and he is
prepared to unleash hell. Iran should
not miscalculate again. Any violence
beyond this point will be because the
Iranian regime refused to understand
they have already been defeated.
>> John Lieber of Eurasia Group joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
This from a Bloomberg subscriber just
moments ago. What an insane time to
invest. Which bouncy board we follow?
Private credit. missiles, underlying
company fundamentals, economic data.
You're all wrestling with the same
thing. Everyone is heading closer and
closer to that self-imposed deadline
this weekend,
>> which uh we're watching right now. The
risk coming out of the market ahead of
this cash levels going up and a sense of
where are you going to hide?
Increasingly, the answer not US bonds,
not gold, but some of the commodities
that are most sensitive to this
particular inflation shock.
>> High stakes diplomacy taking place on
social media. That's what's happening
right now. the president calling out
Iran saying they better get serious soon
before it's too late because once that
happens there's no turning back. That
statement coming out 30 minutes ago
>> and on Monday the statement that came
out from the president completely
whipsawing markets as you and Amber were
talking about. How do you treat this?
How do you want to get ahead of this?
How do you get an edge in a market that
is this vulnerable to these type of
proclamations? I would argue the longer
this goes on, the more a lot of
investors say the upside gets smaller,
the potential for an off-ramp declines,
and the potential for real, longerl
lasting damage increases.
>> How do you trade this with great
difficulty at the moment? Brent and WTI
higher taking equities down by 7/10en of
1% on the S&P. We're down by 0.8 on the
NASDAQ and pushing yields higher,
unlocking higher bond yields, twos, 10,
and 30s. 10's up by five basis points
now, just short of 440. and crude at the
moment. Brent and WTI Brent crude 106
WTI 93 and the surve this morning
threatening to unleash hell
>> if they fail to understand that they
have been defeated militarily and will
continue to be. President Trump will
ensure they are hit harder than they
have ever been hit before. President
Trump does not bluff and he is prepared
to unleash hell. Iran should not
miscalculate again. Any violence beyond
this point will be because the Iranian
regime refused to understand they have
already been defeated and refused to
come to a deal.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
White House insisting peace talks with
Iran are ongoing while threatening
further escalation. Tran rejecting talks
and offering a new set of conditions for
a deal. Amarie has more now from
Washington. Morning Amory.
>> Good morning John. We have another
threat, another warning from the White
House this morning. The president on
Truth Social saying that Iran needs to
make a deal. make it fast or it will not
be pretty. He says before it is too late
because once that happens there is no
turning back. Yesterday Jonathan I was
with the president covering him part of
the press pool. He called what was going
on with this war an excursion into hell.
Clearly he is weighing his options this
morning to try to understand exactly
what is going on the political
ramifications as well domestically. John
Liieber joins us of course from the
Eurasia Group. John, thank you so much
for your time this morning. I'd love to
just get your reaction to early this
morning before the markets open. The
president with this latest threat to the
Iranians, they better get serious before
it's too late. I
>> I think he wants this war to stop and
he's recognizing that he's in a bit of a
challenge. So gas prices are headed over
$4 a gallon and his approval rating is
headed below 40 points and that's not a
good place for the president to be. So
he knows he needs to get out of this war
and he knows that he can't get out of it
alone because even if the US stops
bombing if he's in a situation where the
Iranians are the only ones who are able
to get oil or other products out of the
straight of Hormuz that's a bad outcome
for the world economy. So he's got to do
something to change the game right now
to get the Iranians to open up the
straight and these threats I think are
his way of trying to do that because I
don't think the Iranians are in a mood
to negotiate right now. Do you think
these talk of diplomacy potentially
reports of the vice president JD Vance
going to Islamabad to maybe meet with
Iranian negotiators is that real or do
you think that's just a distraction
while the president and the DoD get
their personnel on the ground? I
>> I don't I mean I think it is real in the
sense that there are people who are
trying to set up talks or mediate talks.
The Pakistanis are involved. Steve
Wickoff has been involved in talking to
the Iranians. But I don't know if these
are going to go anywhere and I don't
know if the Iranians right now have the
incentive that they need in order to
show up at these talks and make a good
faith effort. You also got to remember
that the Iranians have zero reason to
trust the United States here. They got
attacked from their perspective. They
got attacked by America while they were
in the middle of negotiating a nuclear
deal. And what what what guarantees do
they have that the US and Israel is not
going to attack attack them again while
they're negotiating a peace deal?
>> It is a midterm election year. You
mentioned gas prices. Also, the fact
that there doesn't seem to be an
appetite for boots on the ground in
Congress. What kind of push back do you
think we could see? You were an adviser
to Senator Mitch McConnell. What kind of
push back do you think we could see, not
from Democrats, but from his own party?
>> Yeah, I think the push back to putting
American troops at risk here is going to
be enormous. And if that's what it takes
for Trump to deescalate this war is to
get troops on the ground, seize the
Iranian oil, seize some Iranian
territory and potentially expose
thousands of Marines to hostile fire
from the Iranians who have lots of
drones and missiles that they can turn
away from the UAE and Saudi and focus on
American forces, which the Iranians of
course would be happy to do. I think
that's a huge problem for President
Trump and I don't think that's really a
viable option for him right now. Maybe
in a few weeks he sees that as the only
path out of here, but there's going to
be a lot of blowback on Capitol Hill and
from the American public to committing
these troops. And so it just doesn't
leave him with great choices.
>> Where does that leave the $200 billion
the Pentagon is asking Congress to sign
up for? The Democrats are treating that
$200 billion like the authorization for
use of force in the Iraq war, which they
later came to regret because that
authorization of use of force had been
used to create these forever wars that
cost trillions of dollars and got
America bogged down for two decades. And
so the Democrats don't want to vote for
it. I think that's a tall order to get
that 200 billion right now. It'll happen
probably eventually, maybe at the end of
the year when they have to do
appropriations bills, but I just I don't
or or Republicans have the option, of
course, of doing a partyline
reconciliation bill, which introduces a
whole other bunch of complexities
because you're going to have people that
want to do tax. You're going to have
people that want to cut spending, and I
think that's ultimately going to be a
huge problem for Trump. If the president
decides to take this action, Axios
outlined what potentially some of the
strategic goals of that would be, this
quote final blow. Wouldn't the Iranians
just tell the Houthies, "We need to
create more chaos for the Americans. We
need to drive up oil prices higher while
they're now engrossed with the straight
of Hermuz. The Houthies should now close
Babel Mandeb and close the Red Sea.
>> They could try it. The Iranian influence
in the region is waning. I think all the
proxy groups are seeing that right now
Iran's not what they used to be. I mean,
Iran does have a lot of money coming in
their coffers, but our understanding is
that the Houthis are are asking for
money from the Saudis to stay out of
this war, and the Saudis are happy to
pay that for right now. Um, that could
change over time. The Iranians could
make them an offer they can't refuse,
but I think the Houthis right now, we
think, stay out of this war because they
it's in their interest to not attack
their neighbor. Speaking of the midterm
election, speaking of the president
weighing his options, the Wall Street
Journal this morning said that Trump is
telling close associates he wants to
avoid a protracted war in Iran. If he
takes this decision to send in troops to
potentially seize an island or make sure
the military is there to try to clean
the Straight of Hormuse so more vessels
can go through, mind sweepers and the
likes. Won't that mean we are now
running the straight of Hormuse and this
becomes a protractive environment?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I don't think there's
any easy way to get out of this war
right now. If the US deescalates
unilaterally, the Iranians have proven
that they control the strait and they
can let friends and family through and
they can let shipments that are going to
the United States or from its allies,
>> friends and family for $2 million for
>> you, you know, whatever the discount is.
Yeah, you get a nice little rate on your
on your ship that's going through. But I
think that this is a there's just no way
out of this. So you can take it by
force, but then you're committing
yourself to probably months or longer of
US presence in the region and again
exposing a lot of American troops to
missile fire, which is not going to be
popular here.
>> We're at $4 a gallon of gasoline. What
does he do if we're at five?
>> I think he I think he pauses. I think
he's got to say, I'm done. You know, I
expect the Iranians to open the straight
and that's the easiest action for him to
take. It's the least risky action. It's
a long run strategic loss for the United
States and it puts Iran in a stronger
position than when they started this
war, but I don't see what choice he has.
>> John Liieber, thank you so much for your
time this morning. Of course, Jonathan,
John Liieber of Eurasia Group. Immediate
reaction from the president's truth this
morning. Another warning, but he's just
keeping his options open as of this
morning as we head into the weekend.
>> And Marie, thank you. Getting closer and
closer to that self-imposed deadline.
what he just said there about the
Houthies,
that's one of the only release valves
that region has right now to get energy
out and that's through the Red Sea. Can
you imagine how much messier it would be
if the Houthies got involved?
>> Everyone's a mob boss now. So the
Houthies can say to Saudi Arabia, you
want to ship your oil through here, fork
over some dough. And that's essentially
what uh John Lieieber said they were
doing. It highlights, you know, we're in
a different regime now, especially when
it comes to that region. What will it
take to get it back to where it was
before this war? This can't become the
new status quo.
>> Correct.
>> Which is why we keep going back to this.
This is not just about talks between the
US and Iran. Gulf nations have got a lot
to play for here. And if Iran is
pushing, and I keep going back to the
big push they've got right now. When you
go through the five conditions, the one
that stood out for me is the one we've
heard a lot about, which is trying to
formalize what is happening through the
straight formers right now, which is
turning that into their own waterway and
no one else's.
>> That's not sustainable. That's not going
to be agreed upon, certainly by the
United States and certainly not by Gulf
nations in the region. We're watching
this. The Iranians know that the pain
point for the president, as John Liieber
was saying, was that $5 a gallon. So,
when you hear all of this rhetoric on
both sides, the Iranians want oil prices
much higher to exert maximum economic
pain. President Trump would like oil
prices lower so that he has some more
leeway to maneuver politically. That is
the framework that you have to view all
of the rhetoric coming out of all sides.
>> Futures lower by 3/4 of 1% on the S&P.
Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with the OECD Secretary General Matias
Corman as the shadow of stagflation
looms. Plus, Danny has your morning
movers memory stock sinking as Google
announces a new compression technique
for AI. That conversation up next.
Quite a morning already. Check out the
moves. Crude, Brent, WTI pushing higher.
That's setting the tone for the session
so far on Brent and WTI at the moment.
Brent crude at 10640. WTI at 93. That's
taking equities lower by 8/10 of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the S&P, we're a bit
softer off the back of that move in
crude. And this move in the bond market
unlocking higher yields up five basis
points on twos twos at 394 10's at 438.
I say quite a morning quite a morning
already with the statement from the
president of the United States on the
talks with Iran. They better get serious
soon before it's too late because once
that happens there's no turning back. It
won't be pretty. A statement from the
president about an hour ago. So what
could happen if the talks don't go well?
Well, this is from Axios earlier on this
morning. The Pentagon developing
military options for a final blow in
Iran. that could include the use of
ground forces and a massive bombing
campaign that according to two US
officials and two sources with
knowledge.
>> The administration was looking for a
short war, something that was clean, I
put in quotes, akin to what we saw in
Venezuela. The goal is to accomplish
something with the minimum amount of
pain done to supply chains and to the
global economy. this weekend. We'll get
a sense of exactly how that will
transpire potentially given that the
deadline, the self-imposed deadline
expires early Saturday morning. If there
is an escalation, does that put some of
the oil production facilities in the
region in the line of fire potentially
pushing back how long this gets back
online and supplies can pick back up to
not just months but years.
>> Think about how Monday morning felt
before the president put out that post.
the prospect of very near-term almost
immediate escalation risk and the
prospect of this spiraling out of
control. We could be there tomorrow
evening. That's what the market's
confronting at the moment. The prospect
of whether that happens or not.
>> Getting conviction right now in this
market. Good luck. At the same time,
people are saying we're not going to go
back to where we were before. It is
getting harder and harder as the time
grows on. And you're seeing more
investors lean into the stockpiling
trade, the commodities trade. I was
speaking with one investor who said
increasingly not just gold or even US
treasuries but any commodity related
asset that could be stockpiled will
increasingly be the new safe haven and
you're already seeing flows that
represent that.
>> It's a tense moment in financial
markets. Let's get you some single names
going into the opening bow. Two hours
away. Some morning movers with Danny
Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Looking at the memory chip
stocks this morning falling after a
brutal session yesterday as well after
announcement from Alphabet. They put out
something called Turbo Quant that
supposedly compresses the amount of
memory that's needed. So that's been
hurting the memory stocks. To be fair,
equity analysts at link said that it
barely makes a difference. But these
stocks have been on a tear. SanDisk up
something like a,000% over the past
year. So not crazy to take some of the
air out of that. Elsewhere, all the
energy stocks reacting to what you were
pointing out in the market. That is
higher energy prices and concerns about
escalation. Venture Global, a US-based
LNG company, one of the ones that has
benefited. It is already, it already
closed yesterday at a July high, having
rallied since the start of the war.
Shares add another 4 and 1/4% in the
pre-market. Finally, wrapping things up
with some earnings. We heard from Jeff.
Disappointment there despite the fact
their investment bank had the best
quarter, the the best first quarter on
record. Their earnings missed though, 70
cents. expectation was 87 and it appears
to be tied to those credit blowups
taking about a $17 million write down on
both First Brands and MFS in the UK. So
shares are down 2.4% this morning. John
>> Danny, thank you. Looking forward to
catching up with Danny in the next hour.
For more on those movers going into the
opening hour, we'll talk about credit in
just a moment. On our radar this
morning, the Iranian parliament drafting
a bill imposing tolls on vessels through
the straight of Form. plan would legally
recognize Thran's oversight of the
waterway and could be finalized by next
week. Elsewhere, Germany mapping US
supply chain vulnerabilities to use as
leverage in future disputes with the
White House. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the initial findings suggest
ways to target US tech AI investments
and pharmaceuticals. And finally, the
former Goldman Sachs boss Lloyd
Blankfine warning of a fire risk in
private markets.
If you haven't had a crisis, it means
you haven't had a reckoning. You
accumulate tinder on the floor of the
forest, right? And eventually a spark
will come. The longer between intervals
where there's a spark that sets it on
fire, the more that accumulates. So at
some point there needs to be a forcing
function or a reckoning.
>> We have seen headline after headline
over the past few months. Aries and
Apollo capping withdrawals from private
credit funds at 5% this week after a
surge in redemption requests.
>> Lloyd Blinkfine is not alone. You've
heard Jamie Diamond. You've heard Ted
Pick. You've heard a whole host of Wall
Street CEOs warning about this lack of a
wash out that will essentially and
eventually face some sort of reckoning.
Is this it? That's what some people are
asking. Is this the initial tremors of
some sort of credit crisis that could
percolate into something broader? with
Jeffre. Why are their shares down so
much if they beat expectations but did
take a hit on some of these credit
portfolios? The concern here is should
there be any pressure on the US economy,
any decline in growth or even just a
flattening out in growth. All these
companies that could get financed at
levels that were attractive say six
months ago are going to get washed out
and there are a lot of investors who
have not been practicing safe uh safe
investments I should say uh going
forward and you're going to see some
sort of reckoning there. I'm not going
to go there. Please go ahead.
>> No, I'm absolutely going to let that go.
On any other day, maybe not. Today, I'm
gonna let that slide. Okay. I'm sure if
you're at home tracking this, you're in
tears right now. I'll say this on Lloyd.
I'll change the subject. Good.
>> I know he's on the big book tour right
now, so he's doing a lot of publicity,
but it's nice to hear from him, and I
hope he stays this engaged with what's
happening in financial markets because
that man's experience is immensely
valuable,
>> especially through the financial crisis.
more people are saying we have not had a
crisis since the financial crisis that
actually was a credit cycle. 2020
doesn't count. The Fed was buying high
yield bonds, remember that? Or maybe
they just threatened to do so. If you
can't have that kind of counteryclical
response from central banks, what kind
of wash out does this look like?
Increasingly, people are trying to
understand that
>> that was a classic. It really was. Okay.
Energy price shocks fueling station
fears. We'll move on. The OECD
predicting average G20 inflation will
jump to 4% while anticipating lower than
expected global growth. The organization
releasing a new outlook this morning
writing persistent disruptions to
exports from the Middle East could
trigger more extensive repricing in
financial markets. The OECD Secretary
General Matias Gman joins us now for
more. Matias, thanks for making some
time for us this morning. Can we just
start with how difficult it might have
been to put together a forecast in a
moment like this? How complex was it for
you and the team?
>> Well, you know, obviously the level of
uncertainty is extremely high and so
what we do in these circumstances is use
technical assumptions. I mean, you know,
the key factor of course here um you
know relates to the energy supply and
the energy price shock. So you know the
technical assumption that we have used
as the bicesis for our projections is
you know essentially aligned with future
markets pricings as I stood on 20 March.
Now the truth is we can't predict how
much longer the conflict will last or
how much worse uh it could get. So I
mean we really don't have much choice
but to use a baseline scenario and and
and of course but we've also included
like a worst case scenario in in our
report to die. There's there clearly is
a level of quite a significant level of
downside risk to our outlook today.
>> Matias the inflation component of this
is the piece that we can focus on now
and then we can turn to growth. There
are some people who believe the
potential for second order effects is
low because the economies aren't as
strong as they were and maybe balance
sheets for consumers aren't as
well-built resilient right now as they
were coming out of the pandemic. Matias,
where do you stand on that? I remember
the first time we met you were part of
the Australian government. You know
these things well, how to run a
treasury. Do these governments have the
fiscal space to respond to this energy
shock and provide the fiscal support
that consumers might be looking for?
Well, I mean debt levels across the
world are elevated, including because of
some of the fiscal responses, you know,
in the wake of the co pandemic, but but
also, you know, structural pressures on
on spending around around the world.
But, you know, in terms of the inflation
story now, I mean it it the story really
is, you know, different in different
parts of the world. And I mean in terms
of the impact of the energy price shock
and the flow on that hasn't I mean you
know some are more directly exposed than
others. I mean here the direct exposure
you know is probably more into the Asian
markets into the Asia Pacific but um you
know in other areas like Europe um you
know for example I mean the effect the
price effect is more indirect but I mean
there is a impact on global prices when
we look at the United States. I mean in
the United States the reason we say what
we're saying about inflation is there I
mean we do actually see that the labor
market remains relatively tight and and
you know in the context of now this
energy this global energy price shock
and and also the delighted effect still
of some of the tariff price effects and
but also the impacts on the labor market
of slowing net migration. And I mean we
we we do think that there is a
combination of factors there that is
likely to have a bearing on the
inflation outlook in the United States.
>> Matias, we've been trying to wrap our
heads around the idea that the ECB and
the Bank of England are now expected to
hike rates several times even
potentially this year in response to
inflationary pressures. At the same time
that you and many others are downgrading
their downgrading their growth
prospects, at what point do you see the
necessity to hike rates as torpedoing
any potential growth going forward,
forcing you to lower expectations
further on growth?
>> Well, look, I mean, there's obviously
now, you know, different um, you know,
factors impacting the inflation outlook
and and and that is going to have a
bearing on the response of central
banks. I mean it is it is it is you know
of course true. I mean our current
expectation is that the energy price
effect will be temporary and and and as
such I mean you know central banks of
course would be able to take that into
account and and there is a softening in
in labor markets and economic outlook in
some economies around the world. But I
mean in the end what we are saying to
central banks is that they need to
continue to focus you know very closely
on on the data as it evolves and be very
prudent to ensure that um you know
inflation expectations are well anchored
and and and that the inflation outlook
you know is uh is as they would want it
to be.
>> Do you see Matias a real concern about
runaway inflation globally? I mean this
ultimately is the real question. Do you
think that this shock is similar to what
we saw in 2021 2022 especially because
inflation has been above the targets for
quite a while.
But I mean inflation prior to this uh
you know lightest shock was on a
downward path and you know we were
certainly expecting that in most G20
economies you know inflation was going
to get back within the central bank
target range by the end of this year or
sometime next year. But you know this
this now you know clearly is having a
material impact. I mean we are expecting
or we have upgraded our inflation
outlook for this year by globally by
1.2% 2% looking across the G20 economies
I should say. Um now um you know it
remains to be seen as as we've said at
the beginning of this conversation we we
don't know what we don't know. I mean we
don't know how much longer this conflict
will last. We don't know how much worse
it could get. And I mean there's there's
significant downside risk but there's
also upside risk or upside opportunity.
I mean things could turn out better than
what we're fearing.
>> Matias thanks for making time for us
this morning. We appreciate it. The OECD
Secretary General Matias Corman there
following their forecast for the year
ahead. Difficult to put together a
forecast in a moment like this. There is
so much doubt though around a broader
inflation story. No one wants to say the
T-word because they're scarred by what
happened several years back. But I think
basically what you're hearing is labor
markets aren't as tight as they once
were. Household balance sheets aren't as
strong as they once were. So consumer
price tolerance is lower. And the idea,
the argument to get second order effects
and a inflation spiral from here, it's a
difficult argument to make. That's what
I'm hearing from a lot of economists at
the moment.
>> What Wall Street is saying is it's
transitory. At least if you look at the
trading and if you look at break even
rates and ultimately central bankers in
the US are following along with that
theme. At least if you listen to half of
the speech from Fed Chair Jay Powell,
we'll hear about from Kevin Worsh.
Probably he'll lead into that. Very
different tone from the ECB. Whether
that's the correct take remains to be
seen.
>> I've just been humbled so many times
since the pandemic. 100%
>> things have gone different ways. So I
think we have to stay humble once more.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yhara has more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump
insisting Iran is negotiating and
desperate to make a deal. Iran publicly
rejecting Washington's overtures and
issuing conditions of its own. Fars News
reporting. Thrron wants transit tolls.
Now, the latest on the deadly plane
crash at New York's LaGuardia Airport.
All but four of the passengers injured
in the collision between an Air Canada
plane and a firet truck have been
released from the hospital. Roughly 40
people were treated for injuries.
And the postal service is looking to
raise prices to offset rising transport
expenses, including the cost of fuel.
The USPS will increase prices by 8% on
some packages until early next year. If
approved, the price hike will take
effect in a month. That's your reef.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
pressing for rate cuts.
>> I think the Fed needs to cut interest
rates. Now, we have an energy shock and
an inflation shock. So, you're a bit
more patient around it. There is a
premium today, no doubt, for just
uncertainty, which is which is
warranted, then I think you'll get to
the other side.
>> That was Rick Reer of Black Rockck in
Texas, by the way. And I think the
further south Rick goes, the more
buttons that are undone.
>> Well, it is hot out there. So, you know,
I guess God speed.
>> The former Dallas Fed president, Robert
Kaplan, joins us next to talk about
Federal Reserve interest rates and Bremo
very, very interested in safe investing.
So, we'll talk about that, too. New York
City. All right. Watch TV.
>> All right.
Equity futures near session lows were
negative 0.8% on the S&P 500. Here's a
quick look of what prices are doing this
morning. On the NASDAQ, we're down by 1%
on the Russell by 1.3. Off the back of a
move in crude, this is what the bond
market looks like. Yields pushing higher
once again. Twos very close to 4%. 393
up five basis points on 10s to 438. More
supply yesterday. Week 2-year auction.
Week 5-year auction. 7-year supply
coming up later this afternoon. Make a
note of that one. And setting the tone
for absolutely everything worldwide. The
price of this right here. Brenton to WTI
Brent crude 107. The president raising
the stakes as we get closer and closer
to that self-imposed deadline this
weekend.
>> If there is an escalation over the
weekend, could you see uh some sort of
sea change when it comes to expectations
around oil? They have been somewhat
contained because of the expectation
that supply can come back online. Should
that be removed from the equation with
actual oil producing facilities uh
damaged, that changes things.
>> Let's talk about rate policy. Under
Savannah this morning, pressing for rate
cuts.
I think the Fed needs to cut interest
rates. Now, we have an energy shock and
inflation shock. So, you're a bit more
patient around it. Who is affected by
these interest rates today? Small
businesses, young people, low income are
really getting hurt by this interest
rate. Maybe you wait a little bit before
before you drop the rate. There is a
premium today, no doubt, for just
uncertainty, which is which is
warranted, but then I think you'll get
to the other side.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
former Fed chair candidate Rick Reer
calling for looser monetary policy as
market expectations shift from rate
relief to potential hikes. Robert Kaplan
the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs and
former Dallas Fed president joins us now
for more. Mr. Cin, good to see you sir.
>> Good to see you.
>> Thank you for making time for us. What
should the Fed do in a moment like this?
>> Uh for the moment they should do nothing
uh which is what they are doing. They
should uh let this situation continue to
evolve. Keep monitoring it. Uh I think
maybe we'll have more clarity in the
next three or four weeks, but we don't
have it right now. The markets, the
debt, the the credit mark, the the uh
Treasury market, the stock market is
pricing in uh that this won't last very
long. You start to see today it's
starting to realize maybe it'll last
longer and we don't know. And so I think
the Fed is wise to be a risk manager
here and not a prognosticator.
>> You've seen the response from the Fed,
the ECB, the Bank of England. Is there a
better response right now for you?
>> Well, so what you saw is the Fed I
thought appropriately was non-committal
and balanced. The markets repricing, you
know, rate cuts into either no action or
even something on the other side, but
they've been non-committal. The ECB and
the Bank of England are much more
sensitive. Europe is much more sensitive
to the price of oil and fertilizer and
these commodities. And so they're a
little quicker to jump. We're a little
more insulated in the United States. I I
even though even with that, I would have
said to the Bank of England and ECB,
they would be wise to be more
non-committal now, too, because there's
so much uncertainty. We'll have a better
sense in a month. And I would be careful
not to overdo it. And and I've noticed
even they have backed off a little bit
from the stride and see of their
comments. They may turn out to be right,
their initial hawkish reaction, but I
think it's too soon to jump to that.
>> Rick Reer was talking about the
potential for rate cuts in part because
of the weaker economy heading into this
and a number of investors are pointing
to nodes of fragility that are
increasingly popping up in markets. How
much do you see that being a concern and
that there's uh perhaps a little too
much complacency around the weakening
that you could see in the economy going
forward? So, so let's let's go 30 days
ago before all this started uh our our
economic forecast was for actually a
strengthening US economy, strengthening
global economy. We were uh 30 days ago
calling for 2 and a half% plus GDP
growth, not a cyclical slowing but a c
cyclical strengthening. The weakness in
the labor market in that context was
more about mismatches. college graduates
are struggling to find jobs and yet
there's a historic amount of open jobs
that are very attractive. You know,
plumbers, electricians, technicians,
people work on assembly lines and so the
war is going to dampen that uh strength
strengthening. We just don't know how
much. Uh and but it's clear it's going
to mean lower GDP but stickier prices
too. And so um but no, we did not see a
cyclical weakening going into this. This
may create a cyclical weakening, but
it's too soon to say that in my opinion.
>> And right now there still has been a
robust capital markets wide open for a
whole host of deals.
>> How long can that last should this
continue to be roing even just the front
end of Treasury yields?
>> Yeah. Yeah. To your point, equity
markets are not down very much. Credit
spreads are a little wider, but they're
hanging in there. uh again because the
market is pricing in that there's going
to be a resolution
I don't know in the next x number of
weeks not in many months and uh I think
the market keeps wrestling with this
time frame and oil markets are wrestling
with it I think for the moment uh equity
markets and markets generally are
resilient merger activity is very active
um that could change though if it's
clear that this is going to go on longer
and yeah, we may say in hindsight the
markets were underpricing the risks that
this would create, but we don't know
yet.
>> Can we stand client activity? Lisa and I
have been talking about this this
morning about the Gulf as a source of
capital, not just a source of energy.
What are your clients doing and how do
you assess the flows coming out of the
Gulf?
>> So, the the the the part that's uh
that's challenging here, the Gulf was
not only a source of capital, it was a
destination for investment. there was a
there was a lot of activity looking at
uh putting capital in the Gulf,
development in the Gulf. Uh and yes,
they were investing around the world
too. Uh listen, when we look back six
months from now, depending on how this
all gets resolved, that narrative,
you know, may resume, may even get
stronger, but it depends on how this
gets resolved and what the time frame
is. But for the moment, you know, we're
hearing clients in every industry tell
us, I had an order, we were shipping a
product to the Gulf, got cancelled.
We're struggling with shipping. Uh we're
struggling with not just oil, but
fertilizer, helium. It's affecting
semiconductors. The ripple effects are
substantial. Uh so, a lot of it'll
depend on how all this gets resolved and
when it gets resolved.
>> What's the haven asset that you're
recommending to clients or that they're
gravitating towards given all of this
uncertainty? So for investing clients um
and I'll I'll carve out hedge funds,
people who make decisions every day for
big pools of money and uh individuals,
you want to take a long-term horizon. Uh
sometimes the best thing to do and
history has shown the best thing to do
in this kind of period is do nothing. Uh
and uh for for havens, yeah, you could
have more cash. uh up until about a
month ago, we would have said gold was
one option. Obviously, gold is is
behaved in a way that's been surprising.
In years past, we would have said the
10-year Treasury Yeah.
>> was a haven. It's not acting that way.
And so, I think our best advice is look
over the horizon. Don't have a
three-month horizon. Have a multi-year
horizon. Have an asset allocation you
can live with. And and if you can manage
your your emotions, try to stick with
that and don't overreact to what's going
on right now. Certainly difficult to do
that right now. Robert, it's good to see
you. I'm still used to calling you
president Kaplan. Thanks for being here.
The former Dallas Fed president now with
Goldman Sachs on a tricky market for the
time being.
>> Sometimes the best thing to do is to do
nothing. I think a lot of people get
around that again. Haven trade bet. Go
back to bed.
>> I'd say stretch out the time horizon and
take a vacation, but you can't go to the
airport right now. So
>> that's true. Take a local vacation.
>> No, don't do that either. Up next on the
program, Mas Durki of Northwestern
Mutual, Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group,
Inis McI of Oxford Economics, and Sarah
Malik of New. Third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
There's so much noise in the world. It's
very difficult to be definitive around
this.
>> I'm worried about what the negative
consequences are if this conflict
continues to go on. What equity markets
are saying is is that this will not
metastasize into something which is
larger.
>> We are viewing US equities as a bit of a
safe haven in this environment. The bar
for bad news is obviously exceptionally
high.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
an Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now. And
the price action looks like this.
Equities declining across the board on
the S&P 500 negative by 9/10en of 1%
down 1% on the NASDAQ. Higher crude
prices unlocking this in the bond
market. Higher bond yields twos 10 30s
yields pushing higher on twos up by six
basis points now to 394 on 10's
approaching 440 again with this in the
commodity market. Brent and WTI pushing
much higher up by more than 5% on Brent
very close to 108. this statement from
the president earlier on this morning.
Iran better get serious soon before it's
too late because once that happens,
there's no turning back. It won't be
pretty.
>> It's Thursday. We're only a day and a
half away from the self-imposed
deadline. And if President Trump is
putting out statements talking about how
Iran better get serious. It doesn't give
the markets that much confidence that
they are that much closer to some sort
of negotiated release or negotiated
conclusion. That said, taking a step
back, it is such a difficult moment to
understand exactly what the threshold is
for there to be uh an exponential jump
in expectations for both oil prices as
well as the destruction to some of the
oil production facilities. And that I
think is what we seem to be approaching
heading into the weekend.
>> I will say we had a massive turnaround
Monday morning, whipsed by that
statement from the president, taking
away the near-term escalation risk and
opening the door to a diplomatic effort.
But if you look at the bond market, pull
it up again. twos and tens are very
close to where they were on Monday
morning before that post. That move has
persisted even with the administration
opening the door to talks with Iran.
>> I've actually been spending the morning
trying to understand this and trying to
understand if it's coming from inflation
expectations. You're not seeing it in
break even rates, whether it's coming to
the volatility in potential inflation
expectations. So, you need more term
premia or is it a question of just
investors pulling back, selling what
they can, the same kind of uh reaction
that you're seeing in gold. And you've
mentioned Muhammad Alian's piece about
Gulf uh investors in particular, also
Asian investors. A lot of these nations
are having to raise money in order to
finance and offset some of the pain that
a lot of individuals are feeling. Is
that part of what's behind the increase
in yields as so many investors around
this table say they're actually seeing
opportunities start to unlock itself at
least in the front of the yield curve?
>> Two-year auction soft, 5-year auction
week, seven-year auction later on this
afternoon, and seven-year auctions.
We've had a history of this over the
last few years. We've had some soft week
seven-year auctions that have come out
of almost nowhere. We kind of set the
stage for a week one later, haven't we?
>> The seven-year uh tends to be the
awkward kid uh that comes along and
never does particularly well and that
everyone's just like gh they're just the
seven-year at this time following the
2-year and the 5-year. Given the fact
that dealers took down the greatest
proportion of both of those debt sales
since 2022, if it's messy, do people
take a signal of what to expect down the
line? And again, I keep going back to
why is this the fiscal response? Is this
inflation expectations? Or is this a
structural pulling back of investors
around the world?
>> There has been a lot of disruption.
Let's put it that way. A lot of
disruption through the month so far.
Tenure yields this morning up six basis
points. 439. Two's up by six basis
points. Let's call it 395. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Matt Stoy
of Northwestern Mutual with conflicting
signals over the war in Iran. Steven
Shaw of the Shaw Group with oil prices
headed for the biggest monthly jump in
over 35 years and Inis McFee of Oxford
Economics breaking down the latest round
of jobs data. We begin this hour with
stocks edging lower and crude rising.
Matt Sturky of Northwestern Mutual
Wealth Management writing oil prices are
in the driver's seat for the near term.
Breaking this correlation is likely
going to require an energy flow
solution. Until then, volatility is
likely to remain very elevated. Matt
joins us now for more. Matt, welcome.
What are you advocating for going into a
self-imposed deadline this weekend where
we're confronting substantial two-way
risk? This could break one way or the
other aggressively.
Look, I think in moments like this
where, you know, the short term is so
dictated by one variable, that being oil
prices, I think the market's just
tempting you and reminding you that you
need to have a long-term plan and a
asset allocation that incorporates
shocks like this into that plan. doesn't
give you much, you know, high level
conviction to what's going to happen
this weekend, but it does provide some
comfort and some stress testing for
resiliency in your portfolio as you look
out for a year or two years. So, you
know, right now the correlation between
stock prices and oil futures is around
negative.8 or so. That's incredibly
high. It just kind of emphasizes how
how, you know, specifically honed in the
market is on on oil. Uh but if you look
longer term that that correlation is
much looser and eventually we do see
that starting to descend down to that
longerterm correlation.
>> Matt, let's talk about the nature of
those shocks though. There's a history
full of demand shocks but more recently
it's supply shocks that seem to be
popping up here there and everywhere.
How do you build a portfolio for
resiliency if you expect the frequency
of supply shocks to carry on at this
level looking several years out?
>> Look, it's a couple of things. When
there's two main variables that come
into portfolio construction that you
need to think through. One is kind of
what happens when economic growth moves
higher or lower and the other being
inflation moving higher or lower. And
those supply shocks that you mentioned
have been impacting kind of the
inflation higher or lower u variable.
And so in the in the inflation higher
scenario which we're kind of going
through right now, commodities and real
assets being a dedicated allocation of
portfolio kind of really underscores the
reason why it's there in the first
place. Um you know in today's
environment we haven't seen fixed income
really kind of be the ballast portfolio
that we've seen in the past. It's been
commodities that have been driving it
forward. And so you know that is what's
working in the near term. But if you
look over the intermediate term, if we
get past u some of the disruption in the
Middle East today and look through um
kind of how things might shake out based
on the forward curve, you know, maybe
that's not where, you know, the best
money should be placed uh over the
intermediates or maybe it should be back
into traditional equities and and high
quality fixed income. But again, in the
scenario where inflation is unexpectedly
high, real assets are your best friend.
Matt, do we already know enough based on
how this conflict has transpired, how
the world's uh physical market has
responded to start shifting allocations
more into commodity exposed sectors?
>> That's a that's a tough one. I I think
that's difficult because, you know, so
much is just dependent on an
announcement we might get this weekend
either being more escalation or lower
escalation. that tight correlation I
think is going to be with us until there
is that offramp um for uh for flows
being restored out of the Middle East.
So in terms of kind of what to do here I
think you maintain your c your your
portfolio allocations if that requires
some rebalancing I think you do that. uh
but you know in terms of just kind of
looking for an off-ramp in the portfolio
to kind of lessen some of the pain I
think that's that's too short-term in
nature in terms of overall kind of
portfolio hygiene.
>> When we speak to commodity strategists
they talk about a nonlinearity that the
longer this goes on the pain doesn't
just get a little bit worse it gets
significantly worse all at once. Is
there a time frame or is there a sense
of when you'll reach a point where you
will be more definitive about what a
potential outcome could look like and
take more definitive action within your
portfolios?
>> That's a really good question and and it
kind of underscores kind of, you know,
the risk that if this stays in place,
you know, this disruption in the Middle
East, what does that mean for global
commodity markets? you in in reality
right now we've kind of ripped a you
know 10 11 million barrel per day kind
of hole in supply to the global crude
market you know right now just through
shutins and there's the you know the
risk that this uh gets worse if there
isn't flows restored coming out of the
Middle East and so you run the math on
that in terms of that disruption against
kind of global storage levels and that
buys you about four or five weeks worth
of worth of cushion if you want to call
it that beyond that uh the fiscal
market's likely to tighten significantly
further to your point about
nonlinearity. Um I think if you get to
that point, you know, some additional
hedging might make some sense. Uh but
we're just not there yet. And to have
conviction on what's going to happen
three or four weeks from now is really
really tough in this environment.
>> Matt, you have got a trade on though
that I think is interesting and it's in
the equity market and it's small caps.
Small caps so far this month have
declined somewhat off the back of what's
happening here. Obviously, energy is
pushing rates higher. is pushing out
rate cuts. Why the overweight on small
caps not right now?
>> You know, Jonathan, I think that really
kind of ties back to our earlier
conversation about the intermediate
term. And just kind of rewind the clock
back to, you know, not the start of
March, but the start of January and
February. What we were seeing were was a
sustained rotation into that area. Um I
think a continued overweight to small
cap is a view that um you know the
volatility that we're seeing in the
commodities markets and because of the
disruption of flows from the Middle East
uh has an end date to it. It's hard to
have a conviction about what
specifically that end date is, but if
with if we have an intermediate time
horizon, uh that helps with that view.
And what we were seeing heading into
this was rising earnings expectations
combined with attractive relative
valuations.
And and to us, I think that is likely
what we uh are going to continue to lean
on uh to support our overweight view.
Matt, looking at your overweight in
equity, so small versus large,
underweight large cap, and then
comparing it to your overweight in IG
credit and underweight in high yield.
Usually, if someone said to me they were
overweight, small caps in the equity
market, guess where we are in credit?
I'd say you probably like high yield.
Why the difference there, that slight
nuance?
>> You know, I think when we started this
year, uh the the the nuance was
reflected of pricing. Um so if we
started you know 2026 at near 20 some
year tights in credit spreads you know
the pricing there just wasn't really
necessarily commiserate with the risk uh
profile of of high yield. And now I
understand that there are tight
correlations between credit spreads and
the performance of of cyclical parts of
the equity market like small cap
specifically. But against uh against a
kind of more compressed earnings uh
profile in the small cap space and a
price point that was in the mid- teens,
we just thought it was better to put the
incremental dollar in the small cap
space versus the high yield. Now
certainly we don't necessarily expect
small cap performance to perform up to
our level of expectations if we see
spreads continue to widen out. Uh but in
terms of the incremental dollar, we
thought it was better served in the
small cap space.
>> Interesting. Matt, thank you sir. Matt
Duki there of Northwestern Mutual Wealth
Management. Always looking through
people's positions and looking for these
pockets of tension and that's a pocket
of tension that jumped out to me.
>> Yeah. And it goes to a point that Howard
Marks was making not necessarily about
small caps in any way, shape or form,
but in certain sectors maybe equity risk
is better than credit risk because
you're not getting compensated
sufficiently for the credit spread. And
that ultimately is something that an
increasing number of investors are
looking at particularly tied to AI given
the uh potential spread of outcomes in
that sector.
>> That's well framed. Russell futures
right now down by about 1% on the S&P
attempting to recover just bouncing off
session lows still negative by 3/4 of 1%
with an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Yhira
has more. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump posting
on Truth Social that Iranian negotiators
are quote begging to make a deal. The
president urging Iran to get serious
before it's too late. Writing once that
happens there is no turning back and it
won't be pretty. Axios reporting this
morning that the Pentagon is gearing up
for a massive final blow of the war.
Exoldman CEO Blankfine is warning of a
fire risk in private markets. Blankfine
telling Bloomberg the accumulation of
unsold private assets on investors
balance sheets is a warning that some
may be overvalued and a spark could
trigger a widespread markdown.
And the average Wall Street bonus
jumping to a record last year, rising 6%
to $246,900
according to estimates from the New York
State's controller with the total payout
pool rising to over 49 billion as
profits and revenues soared for the
banking sector. That's your brief. John
>> Yhierra, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yhierra later this hour. Up
next on the program, the morning calls.
plus Steven Shaw of the Shaw Group as
crude prices continue climbing live from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
the risk feels a bit asymmetric at this
moment. So if we have a peace deal um
then we could have a relief rally in
markets. On the other hand, if we don't
have tangible evidence of actions that
could shorten the duration of the
disruption, then current risk pricing is
not consistent with the doable
disruption that energy markets are
priced in right now.
>> Copy and paste, cut it, repeat it. We've
heard that so many times since this war
started. We lead there of Black Rockck
on the disconnect between energy and
what's happening in risk assets. Risk
looks like this this morning. We're
negative by 3/4 of 1% on the S&P, down
by 0.9 on the NASDAQ, down by more than
1% on the Russell. Unlocking higher
yields in the bond market. Twos, tens,
and 30s. Twos really close to 4% again
up four basis points on the day to 392,
up four on 10 to 438. More supply later.
We've talked a lot about that 7-year
auction. So look out for that later this
afternoon. In the commodity market,
crude Brent and WTI higher by some 4%
107 on Brent WTI 94. A couple of
headlines worth going over. Done it a
few times already this morning. This
came from the president directly. They
better get serious. Iran better get
serious soon before it's too late
because once that happens, there's no
turning back. It won't be pretty. This
is the final two days of negotiations
against the self-imposed deadline for
them that the president set earlier on
this week. This came from Axios. This
was quite instructive. Few hours ago,
the Pentagon delivering military options
for a final blow in Iran that could
include the use of ground forces in a
massive bombing campaign. That according
to two US officials and two others with
knowledge of the matter.
>> And different military strategists have
talked about how the hope is to escalate
to deescalate to bring in troops into
the region and uh some significant
threats in order to reach some sort of
resolution. That is the double-sided
issue that we're facing for a weekend
which could end up with either a real
upside or a real downside.
>> It makes it difficult to put on risk
over the next few days. That's for sure.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up, UBS upgrading new core to buy
calling it quote largely insulated from
the war with Iran. That stock is up by
1%. Your second call from Bernstein
downgrading Qualcomm to market perform
believing memory issues will worsen.
That name is down by close to 2%. And
finally, DA Davidson raising its price
target on Clear, highlighting
opportunity from the partial government
shutdown. Their stock is just about
unchanged. We've got someone around the
table with some experience of that.
>> Okay. I always thought it was a scam, a
paytoplay. You know, if you've got money
to pay, you can skip the line. And it
felt just really unfair to me. But sure
enough,
>> sure felt good this week, didn't it?
>> I went ahead. Never felt so happy about
spending that money. And I totally sold
out. So, I understand the upgrade. I
can't wait to see the chart just how
many other people have
>> 100%
>> have done the same thing. Let's send
back to our top story. Oil prices whips
soaring as the US and Iran offer
conflicting comments on ceasefire
discussion. Steven Shaw of the Short
Group writing the following. The gap
between market optimism and ground truth
is dangerous. The market is pricing a
panic, not a new normal. Steven joins us
now for more. Steven, welcome back. I've
heard this a lot. We've all heard this a
lot. The disconnect between the physical
market and the paper market. What
explains it one and two, how do you
think it's going to resolve?
>> Uh, absolutely. So, the physical market
that's being most affected by by the
conflict of course is in the Asian
markets. So, that's where we're seeing
the disconnect. We're seeing well,
you'll see analysts will talk about
predictions pie in the sky. Oh, $130,
$140, $150 oil potentially. That's where
we could go. You know what? We're
already there in the Asian markets. So,
there's the disconnect. the money that's
being traded, the quotes that we see
here on Bloomberg or for NXWTI for
IceBrank crude oil. These are markets
that are based in the Atlantic basin.
And as we just saw yesterday with the
EIA weekly update on petroleum, the
Atlantic basin is well supplied with
oil. So the contracts we are looking at
are depressed because they're in a
market area that is secondary to where
the real action is. So it's that massive
disconnect on the physical side.
Interestingly enough, when we look at
the CFTC data, the commitment of
traders, we're seeing a tremendous
amount of selling by producers. And
Jonathan, there is the disconnect
because when you look at speculators,
hedge funds, they own 11 Brent crude oil
contracts, for every one contract, they
are short. They are massively long. On
the other side, the physical guys, the
producers are selling into this rally.
So therein is the catalyst for that
disconnect.
>> Stephen, just explain that for people
who don't follow your world. Why would
they be selling into this rally?
>> Uh, absolutely. You're a producer. So
ideally, you're selling into it because
you are taking advantage of these
prices. So now we're looking at Brent
crude oil uh in the 105 106 up to $110
range. WTI in uh in the mid90 uh
dollars. Yeah, got it right up there on
the screen there. Thank you. And so what
that's telling us is the physical guys
are taking advantage of this. Could the
prices go higher? Absolutely. But the
guys that know the best selling physical
cargos, they're more than happy to lock
in their production at this point. And
there in lies a problem and a potential
trap. If we do get a resolution sooner
rather than later with the funds being
long 11 to one, there are no longer any
natural buyers left in this market. So,
if there is a panic to liquidate your
positions, it's going to be a mass run
to the exits and you'll see a
significant downdraft on a massive
squeeze yet to be seen because I do
think militarily it gets worse before it
gets better. But there in is our game
plan right here. We have funds, Wall
Street, we'll just say massively long
oil producers, the guys that actually
touch oil are selling into this rally.
And we have a bifurcated global market
where the real shortage is in the um
Asian basin, whereas we are focused on
prices that are priced off of the
Atlantic basin.
>> Stephen, this is fascinating and it
explains why the price of physical oil
in Dubai actually fell significantly
over the past couple of trading
sessions. And it goes against what a lot
of commodity strategists have been
saying which is that this huge gap
between the physical and the paper
market would close to the upside for the
paper market. Do you think it is too
early to say that that is going to be
the path of travel that frankly some of
the more dramatic statements coming out
of commodity strategists is overplaying
how much upside is left?
>> Uh absolutely. And and let's keep in
mind and I've said it before on the show
that you know can we go higher? Can WTI
Brent go up to that $150 range?
Absolutely. Can it stay there? Skeptical
because what of course that means for
economic um degradation. But to your
point with the physical market in Asia
coming off, it's coming off because
access to that physical oil I is is
really difficult. So if you if you can't
if you don't have the product, you
really can't charge a premium. What we
are seeing now is a shift to the Gulf
Coast. We're seeing what it takes the
premiums of of bringing West Texas oil
down to Houston to get to the Gulf
Coast. Tremendous amount of from
sources, tremendous amount of Asian
buying going on in the Gulf Coast uh at
this point. So, there is that real
demand shift now. We're shifting away
from Asia or where where the oil is
because we're we're running out of it
for all intents and purposes and where
we have plenty of it in the Atlantic
basin. This is where the buyers are
going. So that physical demand is
migrating now from from the Asian
markets into the Gulf Coast markets, the
Atlantic basin markets ideally to bring
that oil, US oil, North Sea oil back
into uh where the demand is needed
through the refineries in South Korea,
Japan, so forth. There's a question
about nonlinearities right now and I've
seen a lot of investment firms talking
about this that if you start to get
destruction of oil production facilities
that changes the game and you could
start seeing the more significant
numbers of 200 and beyond. How how
closely are you watching that especially
as we head into this weekend? Uh
absolutely it's it's a concern and and
what we're seeing not just on the oil
side but look what's happened in Qar
where 17% of their n uh natural gas or
LG production has been shuttered and
could be offline for the next 3 to 5
years. So we are going into an area of
really uncharted waters at this point.
I'm reticent to call $200 oil
mathematically from a quantitative
probabilistic modeling I've mapped it
out. Yes, theoretically we could get up
to $238 oil by the end of this year, but
I really think that argument is moot.
Uh, and I'll go back to history because
back in 2008 when oil was at 140, 145,
nearly $150 a barrel, all the smart
people on Wall Street were mapping out
$200. Absolutely, we're going there.
Well, you know what happened before we
got there? We hit the Great Recession.
So, at this point, can we get there? Uh
yes, potentially, but there is really no
staying power because the demand
destruction will be so significant that
we'll see a worldwide contraction,
economic growth. And as the saying goes,
high prices are the cure for high
prices. You make those prices high
enough, you'll either get the supply to
meet that or you'll get the demand
destruction to pull those prices lower.
>> Stephen, it's good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down. Steven Shaw there
of the Shaw Group heading into a weekend
with substantial two-way risk and just
some illumination there about the air
pocket we could hit to the downside if
we get a resolution to this war.
>> It was refreshing to hear that. I was
surprised by the fact that physical oil
prices out of Dubai actually have
contracted over the past couple of days.
It's not clear exactly how this is going
to break which continues to add to the
uncertainty heading into the weekend.
>> Not clear who's getting through the
straight and who isn't at the moment.
>> That's true also and what supplies look
like. Equity futures right now on the
S&P 500 near session lows. Up next,
we'll get you some data. Jobless claims
in America set to cross in McI of Oxford
Economics will be with us around the
table to break it down.
This is how we're set up. 60 minutes out
from the open and belt. The cash open
just around the corner. Futures pulling
back on the S&P 500. We're negative by
0.8 on the NASDAQ down by 1%. In the
bond market, yields pushing higher
throughout much of this morning.
Tuesdays 30s up by let's call it two to
three basis points right now. Twos at
392. Heading into the data just seconds
away. Crude setting the tone for
everything. WTI and Bren Bren crude 107
and higher by close to 5%. With some
jobless claims data, let's get to Mike
McKe for more. Morning Mike.
>> Morning John. a bit of a rise in jobless
claims to exactly what was predicted,
210,000 for the week ending last week on
March 21st. However, that's still a very
low number. So, it doesn't really
suggest any kind of change, just a
little bit of volatility. Uh the
continuing claims number 1,819,000
is down from 1,851,000
2 weeks ago. So, uh not much change on
the labor side of the Fed's mandate. And
it doesn't appear that companies are
reacting yet to anything that's
happening over in the Middle East.
However, we are seeing and I want to
bring this back up. I know you talked to
the uh secretary general a little while
ago of the OECD. Um the inflation side
of the Fed's mandate is starting to show
cracks. The OECD uh predicting 4.2%
inflation for the US this year. That may
not be um completely accurate since we
don't know how long this is all going to
go on, but it's something that people
should be considering when they're
filtering through what the Fed is going
to be saying over the next couple of
days. And the rest of those countries,
here's a point that uh people are
starting to make in the economic
circles. Rest of those countries could
be in trouble because not only are oil
prices going up, but the dollar is going
up. And as the dollar goes up, their uh
their currencies buy less and oil's
priced in dollars. So it's a double
squeeze for the rest of the world and
that could lead to demand destruction
that leads to lower growth here.
>> That's the one-two punch. State side,
Mike, this is what I hear a lot. Let's
work through it together. Inflation
ultimately by the time we get to the end
of the year will be closer to three than
two. that will constrain the Fed, but
the Fed doesn't have to worry about an
inflationary spiral and so-called second
order effects because we're told, Mike,
that this labor market is not as tight
as it once was. Then I look at claims of
210 and a four-week moving average of
around the same number, Mike, and I
wonder just how tight this labor market
is. How tight is it? uh we don't think
it's all that tight but the biggest
issue is that we have lost a lot of
population because of the crackdown on
immigration and that seems to be leading
to a situation where employers need
fewer workers because the economy is not
uh putting the pressure on them at this
point and so we don't see the
unemployment rate rising as you would
think it might in this kind of situation
but nobody knows for sure this is one of
those things we'll be looking back on 5
years from now and have a better handle
on exactly what's going on. But uh as I
think Jay Pal said in his news
conference the other day, economy is
still performing relatively well. There
are all these clouds on the horizon
though. That's the big question is does
the OECD's forecast come true and do we
see the rest of the world slow down and
the US economy slow down? No sign yet
really.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. It's one of
the biggest differences between now and
say 2022. Back in 22, unemployment was
around what 3 and a half%. Now it's
closer to 4 and a half than it is to
three and a half.
>> And the fiscal impulse was different
then too with uh money printing in a
much more significant way. That said,
this explains why it's so confusing this
moment because on one hand, you could
say, well, inflation is picking up and
even before the potential oil price
shock, you saw that yesterday. Mike was
talking about import prices and how much
they increased Bruce's expectations. On
the other hand, things are still good
and actually might have even been
improving during the remainder of this
year had it not been for what we're
seeing in oil.
>> Claims at 210 is good news. That's good
news for this labor market. No other way
of talking about it. So that's the labor
market. That's how the stage is set.
This is how the stage is set for
diplomacy right now. The president
heading into the weekend, a self-imposed
deadline for talks between the US and
Iran. And this line from him this
morning, they better get serious soon
before it's too late because once that
happens, there is no turning back and it
won't be pretty. Anmarie's been tracking
the story down in DC. Amarie, how is the
stage set going into this one? That
self-imposed deadline only two days
away.
>> That self-imposed deadline is just days
away, Jonathan. And the president is out
with another warning to the Iranian
regime, another threat that you better
get serious when it comes to diplomacy
or it's not going to be pretty for you.
At the same time, there's also reporting
this morning from Axios that's talking
about the Pentagon is preparing these
potential options for a quote final
blow. And the details, if you look at in
that story, really go towards the heart
of what the United States wants would be
opening up the Strait of Hermoose,
potentially um getting some assets on
the ground and some of these key islands
that are in the straight that the
Iranians need to control the straight.
Also interesting in the last hour we
heard from Pakistan's foreign minister
and he said that there's unnecessary
speculation in the media regarding these
talks and he pretty much crystallized
what is happening in terms of the back
channel. He said individuals like
Pakistan as well as Egypt and Turkey are
the ones that are acting as
intermediaries and it is through
Islamabad that the United States shared
that 15 points. So they are acting as
this intermediary. But he didn't go on
to say anything the fact of of the likes
that there would actually be talks in
person. So really where we are at this
moment is a fork in the road. The
president needs to decide. Does he
continue diplomacy after Friday or
potentially could we see another
escalation on the ground?
>> And Marie Lisa and I have been talking
about this all morning. It's not just
about the US and Iran. One of the
conditions in a report that came out
yesterday that Iran is demanding is the
sovereign right to exercise authority
over the straight of form. What are the
nations across the Gulf saying about
what Iran is demanding?
>> Yeah, that's absolutely dead on arrival
for nations across the Gulf for as well
as allies in Europe as well as the
Asia-Pacific. We have seen Iran already
do this. Remember, the strait is open to
as John Liieber said it earlier family
and friends. uh it's not open to
everyone else which is why you are
seeing some vessels go through but
obviously not the normal flow and what
Iran's parliament right now is drafting
is basically a new toll if you want to
come through the straight of Hermoose
which is an international body of water
that we have been using for years
companies have been using and countries
have been using for years they're now
saying you have to charge a fee and
we've have seen some tankers pay this
fee one reportedly $2 million dollar. So
that is what Iran is doing and when they
talk about one of these demand in their
five points according to Iranian Press
TV was this demand that is not going to
work with this administration or other
allies around the world.
>> Am I appreciate the update I know you've
got to run. Amarie down in Washington DC
cabinet meeting coming up for the
president later on this morning. Let's
talk to Inennis Mcy of Oxford Economics.
He joins us now. Inis, welcome to the
program. Labor market data is okay. The
threat of escalation still very much on
the horizon. walk us through how you
track in the damage, how this is turning
up in the data that we've seen so far.
>> Thanks, John. Well, I think you know the
first thing to say is that we're going
to see this really have an impact on
inflation first of all flow through to
real incomes. On the positive side,
we're obviously going to see more output
um from the oil sector in the US. But
really we're going to start to see that
impact on the economy or that impact on
consumer demand start to bleed through.
I would say really in the second half of
the year. Now elsewhere outside of the
US in Europe for example the impact is
going to take a little longer because of
course gas prices are much more um
impactful there. that's much more the uh
driving force of the economic impact and
that won't really start to have a big
impact on energy prices that firms and
uh households pay until around the
winter. So much more of a sort of Q4 Q1
impact uh for the European economies.
>> How fragmented is the global economy
right now when it comes to growth
outlooks in response to this oil price
shock? There's a feeling on Wall Street
that the United States market is pretty
insulated based on its own oil
production and its self-sufficiency
versus say Asian economies in Europe
that are much more exposed and have
greater downside risk to growth. Do you
agree with that? Do you see that kind of
uh shaking out in a significant way?
>> Absolutely. Just from a high level
perspective, what we're really seeing is
a a lot of the cracks starting to
develop in in the global economy. a lot
of the typical sort of vulnerabilities
that you might expect to be corrected
through a recession or some sort of
economic downturn. So we look around the
global economy obviously you've got the
US which at a household level is very
divided um in terms of economic
prospects. This shock will only serve to
reinforce that. We all know that around
4% of um the bottom half of consumers um
in the in the US are um have 4% of their
disposable income uh is spent on on
gasoline prices. That's offset to some
extent for the US by being a net energy
exporter. For Europe, it's much more of
a gas story and some of that liqufied
natural gas and that being a large input
in terms of um the energy mix there and
what firms pay in terms of um energy
costs and their structural
competitiveness versus the US and others
even for Asia. This is going to be a
significant shock I think as well. Just
remember that you know Qatar and region
is a major producer of helium and other
gases that are quite critical in the
production of semiconductors and so
you're looking at supply chain issues
all around the world that are going to
have differential impacts and this is
going to be quite a a nuanced shock
that's going to play out over the
following quarters.
>> And is how much uh conviction do you
have around any kind of forward-looking
projection right now? You know, we're
talking about we have no idea how long
this goes on, but an increasing number
of people say once you've reached a
certain point, the risks become
significantly greater. It is nonlinear.
What is that point for you as you look
out and assess the landscape?
>> Yeah, I think it's a great question.
Look, there's a huge amount of
uncertainty. ultimately comes down to
the duration of the shock. How long we
see supply down from the straight hall
moves that will determine the energy
price shock and therefore the hit to
real incomes and the impact on
businesses.
In terms of the nonlinearity, I I tend
to think about it and putting the
question in a slightly easier way in
terms of what's the oil price that
really starts to um have a major impact
on the economy and what what's that
point at which you start to get those
nonlinearities.
We think that's around $150 a barrel. If
you see that sustained for some period
of time, that's when you start to see a
a really significant hit on the global
economy. Um, and then potentially a lot
of the second round impacts through
wealth effects, through asset prices and
so on that might well then mean that
you're moving towards more of a a
recessionary scenario than simply a
significant hit to growth.
>> Enis, we're often in different financial
capitals. Can you draw on your
experience in conversations with clients
over the past few days? Is there a
difference between how they're
approaching this in say New York and
what they're telling you over in London?
>> Yeah, it's funny you say that. I was in
New York a couple of weeks ago and I
think really the the focus there was
actually on AI um uh believe it or not
and really the the longer term
structural impact that might have on
business models. Um whereas in London um
over the past week clients have really
been focused on Iran, the impact of
energy, the impacts that that would have
on um demand on a firm's hiring
practices and on the labor market. So I
think you know over the last couple of
weeks anyway my small sample um there's
actually been quite a different focus um
either sides of the Atlantic.
>> And it's good to see you. Thanks for
making time for us. In Miy there of
Oxford Economics, we've experienced a
similar thing.
>> Yeah. Look for the edge you've got,
right? I mean essentially people in New
York are saying we have no way of
analyzing this and typically you buy the
dip. So just ignore it for now and focus
on what you can which is AI and private
credit and that's what we're going to
focus on and frankly it has been
completely not on the agenda to talk
about the war. Is it complacency or are
they right? Uh we shall see.
>> The longest first quarter ever
continues. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Yara has more. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. Recapping that data we just
received. Jobless claims coming in
exactly in line with estimates at
210,000
for last week. The 4-week moving average
now sitting at 210,500.
Uh continuing claims ticking down by
8,000 coming in at 1.82 million. A
private credit fund managed by Aries saw
its steepest monthly loss on record in
February. It's the latest domino to fall
in a broader sell-off across public debt
markets, which Aries uses to assign
prices to its assets. The firm recently
capping withdrawals at 5% of the fund's
net assets.
And in sports, the New York Yankees
defeating the San Francisco Giants 7 to0
last night to kick off the 2026 MLB
season. The rest of the majors will open
today with the Mets hosting reigning
National League Sai Young winner Paul
Skins and the Pittsburgh Pirates. Dr.
Bloomberg brief John.
>> We've had a Greenland crisis. Yahara,
thank you. We've had a Venezuela crisis,
had a private credit crisis, had an AI
disruption crisis, had a crisis in the
Middle East, all in the first quarter of
the year.
>> I'm having a crisis. That's how I feel
about this and I think everyone does. It
feels like people are becoming benumbed
a little bit in New York. It's just
enough crises already,
>> right? It continues. Up next on the
program, Sarah Malik of New Still
expecting one to two rate cuts this
year. Plus, Danny drops by. She's got
some morning movers for you. Energy
stocks up on the president's latest
warning to Iran.
the markets, the debt, the the credit
mark, the the uh treasury market, the
stock market is pricing in uh that this
won't last very long. You start to see
today it's starting to realize maybe
it'll last longer and we don't know. And
so I think the Fed is wise to be a risk
manager here and not a prognosticator.
>> If in doubt, do nothing. That's the
message coming from the Fed right now
and from the Dallas Fed president, the
former one, Robert Kaplan. Now with
Goldman Sachs joining us a little bit
earlier on on the program. Equity
futures right now in the S&P very close
to session lows going into the cash
open. We're down by let's call it 9/10en
of 1% down 1% on the NASDAQ 100 with
some single names and morning movers.
Danny has more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. With the price of oil nearly
up 5% this morning. Worth checking on
the oil majors that are doing better but
not huge gains. They have been gaining
for most weeks since the war broke out.
We're around 1% higher for the oil
majors. Exxon, Chevron, Kico Phillips.
That one's doing the best, above 1%.
Elsewhere, it's also the memory chip
stocks that have been under pressure
both yesterday and today. Google comes
out with a new compressor that they say
reduces the need for memory. But a lot
of the analysts point out that this
really isn't that big of a difference.
Lynx equity analysts saying eh whatever.
It's only going to make a tiny
difference for need for memory. But
these stocks have had a huge run up. So
not surprising to see some of the air
come out. Sandis down 3.6% Micron down
nearly 3%. Finally some earnings from
Miller Null. They make high-end office
furniture. This one was really telling
of the time. So they misestimates
essentially they say look we're dealing
with higher tariff costs but that's fine
we've already taken measures to mitigate
that that we can deal with. The issue is
the war in the Middle East they're
taking an 8 to9 million charge because
they're getting less shipments and
logistic costs are now higher for them.
So those shares off 20 and a half% in
the pre-market. John
>> Danny thank you looking forward to the
show alongside Matt Miller going into
the open and bound. That kicks off in
about 10 minutes time. Let's talk about
the Federal Reserve. Black Rockck's Rick
Reer doubling down on his view. The Fed
should start cutting rates once again.
>> I think the Fed needs to cut interest
rates. Now we have an energy shock and
inflation shock. So you're a bit more
patient around it. I think you need to
get there because I think the interest
rate channel is very different than it
used to be. Small businesses, young
people, low income are really getting
hurt by this interest rate.
>> Sarah Malik of New writing the
following. The next phase of the Fed may
focus more on productivity, not just
inflation. Expect one to two rate cuts
in late 26 with the risk of a delay into
2027. Sarah joins us now for more.
Sarah, welcome to the program. You call
this a shock, not a structural inflation
cycle. What's the difference between the
two?
>> Well, we're definitely in a period of
uncertainty here. So, the difference
between a shock and structural inflation
is going to have to do with the length
of this war. Typically, about 3 weeks
past the beginning of a war is where you
get to peak uncertainty and the market
bottoms. We are about there now. But if
this war continues to ramp up, that's
where the risk will increase from shock
to structural inflation. If you look at
oil prices, if they increase by $10,
that's about a 10 basis point drag to US
GDP and a 40 basis point increase to
inflation. So that what we don't want to
see is oil prices get to about $125 and
stay there for an extended period of
time because that's going to bring back
and increase the risk of stagflation
which will be a period of higher
inflation and of course lower un lower
employment and we saw that with last
month's payrolls which came in at -
92,000. So that's the risk going
forward. I don't think we're there yet.
I think rate cuts can be still on the
table for later this year.
>> Well, let's attack the stag of
stagflation. This is important. We live
in a nominal world. If inflation rises
and nominal growth is good, earnings
should be okay. Sarah, what's the
outlook for earnings and how insulated
is that revenue stream for some of these
big companies in America? Second quarter
earnings outlook which will start in a
few weeks. Those earnings still look
strong up low teens year-over-year. I
think we can get to that level. There's
going to be a lot of uncertainty around
that. Remember those earnings are going
to be, you know, partially before the
war started. So that's going to be a bit
backward looking. What we're going going
to be focusing on is what are companies
saying about whether they'll pull back
because of the risk of higher inflation
and uncertainty around the war. The good
news for the US markets was that we came
into the markets with strong earnings
growth and a and a fairly strong growing
economy. But the bad news is that we
also came into this year with markets at
a premium after multiple years of a
positive run. What we have seen though
is you know the market has been volatile
during this period but not a tremendous
amount of downside yet because of this
war as a lot of buyers have been
stepping in. We've seen that from retail
buyers, foreign buyers and target date
strategies. So we're in a buy the dip
environment in the US. The question is
though if this war continues to ramp up
week after week I think eventually we're
going to see some form of capitulation
for the markets. Sarah, do you think
that there is complacency right now when
you talk about the risk markets that
have been uh well bid and people have
been buying in or do you have more
comfort right now in the bond space
where people seem a lot more concerned?
I think the bond market is telling us um
more of a signal than the equity
markets. We've dealt with a lot of
uncertainty here today. You all were
just talking about it between this war,
Venezuela, what's going with AI, what's
going on with private credit. There's a
lot to be concerned about. I am a little
surprised that equities are sort of
just, you know, walking right by it.
People are still coming in to buy.
That's a sign of a lot of cash on the
sidelines that wants to get into these
markets and rely on that earnings
growth. I I don't think today is the day
where I'd be stepping in to buy
equities. I would wait to see are we
going to get more clarity around a
ceasefire for this war because markets
dayto-day are going to trade on whether
we think we're getting a ceasefire in
the near term or we're not. Today, of
course, we do not see a ceasefire coming
anytime soon. Sarah, what is the signal
right now from bond markets? Is it
worries about an inflationary spiral? Is
it worries about some sort of fiscal
impulse needed to respond to some sort
of cost of living crisis? Or is this
just buyers stepping back from around
the world as they look to pad their own
uh consumers balance sheets? Well, bond
markets are worried about are two
things. One is that inflation is going
to spike and it's going to be more
structural and secondarily that'll lead
to the Fed having an inability to cut
rates and because we'll end up in the
stagflationary environment where the
Fed's hands are tied. But that is not my
base case scenario. I do think that we
will get to a period where this war
either causes the economy to slow enough
where the Fed needs to cut rates to
support the economy and consumers or
they look and even if we have an
extended bump to inflation, we realize
it was oil price driven. Once we're past
this war, oil should settle back into
the $70 to $80 range. The Fed can look
at that and say, "Okay, we'll get past
this period of inflation like we did
during the COVID pandemic. we can uh put
a rate cut in near the end of this year,
another one in early 2027 and go from
there.
>> Sarah, it's good to see you. It's always
great to touch base. Sarah Malik there
of New breaking down this market. This
is how the stage is set heading into the
weekend and this South and Post
deadline. We're in the talks about talks
phase. It's always a tricky moment.
You've got both sides trying to anchor
to the extreme and build leverage as we
go on. And this can break either way.
And that's what's difficult for
financial market participants just
knowing that you're facing substantial
two-way risk. Something we keep talking
about as we inch closer and closer to
that deadline.
>> Yeah. And all sides are trying to use
the market to use uh to get more
leverage. I mean that's the other aspect
of this that also is giving people some
agida. This idea that not only do uh oil
prices move in response to an actual
escalation but Iran wants oil prices to
go higher and the rest of the world is
looking for lower energy prices to save
off an economic crisis. Who's going to
win? It is a very uncomfortable
position.
>> It's going to be quite a morning
tomorrow morning as we count you down
literally counting down the hours to the
end of that deadline. the president of
course with great discretion to push it
back even further and say the talks are
continuing. We'll keep monitoring the
latest headlines for you. Tomorrow we'll
catch up with Russ Costrick of Black
Rockck, Joe Davis of Vanguard, Michael
Gapen of Morgan Stanley, Mona Mahajan of
Edward Jones as we count you down to a
pretty big weekend potentially for the
war between Iran and the United States.
Your equity market in this session lows
were down about 1% on the S&P 500. Bond
yields are higher and crude keeps on
gaining up by around 5%. WTI $94 brick
crude 107 from New York City this
morning. Good morning. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.